Chapter 5. Encoding and Evolution
第五章. 编码与演变

Everything changes and nothing stands still.
一切都在变化，没有什么是静止的。

Heraclitus of Ephesus, as quoted by Plato in Cratylus (360 BCE)
以弗所的赫拉克利特，柏拉图在《克拉提鲁斯》中引用（公元前 360 年）

A Note for Early Release Readers
给提前发布读者的说明

With Early Release ebooks, you get books in their earliest form—the author’s raw and unedited content as they write—so you can take advantage of these technologies long before the official release of these titles.
通过早期发布的电子书，您可以获得书籍的最初形式——作者在写作时的原始和未编辑内容——因此您可以在这些书籍正式发布之前就利用这些技术。

This will be the 5th chapter of the final book. The GitHub repo for this book is https://github.com/ept/ddia2-feedback.
这将是最终书籍的第五章。该书的 GitHub 仓库是 https://github.com/ept/ddia2-feedback。

If you have comments about how we might improve the content and/or examples in this book, or if you notice missing material within this chapter, please reach out on GitHub.
如果您对我们如何改进本书的内容和/或示例有任何意见，或者如果您在本章中发现缺失的材料，请在 GitHub 上与我们联系。

Applications inevitably change over time. Features are added or modified as new products are launched, user requirements become better understood, or business circumstances change. In Chapter 2 we introduced the idea of evolvability: we should aim to build systems that make it easy to adapt to change (see “Evolvability: Making Change Easy”).
应用程序不可避免地会随着时间而变化。随着新产品的推出、用户需求的更好理解或商业环境的变化，功能会被添加或修改。在第二章中，我们介绍了可演变性的概念：我们应该旨在构建易于适应变化的系统（见“可演变性：让变化变得简单”）。

In most cases, a change to an application’s features also requires a change to data that it stores: perhaps a new field or record type needs to be captured, or perhaps existing data needs to be presented in a new way.
在大多数情况下，对应用程序功能的更改也需要对其存储的数据进行更改：可能需要捕获一个新的字段或记录类型，或者可能需要以新的方式呈现现有数据。

The data models we discussed in Chapter 3 have different ways of coping with such change. Relational databases generally assume that all data in the database conforms to one schema: although that schema can be changed (through schema migrations; i.e., ALTER statements), there is exactly one schema in force at any one point in time. By contrast, schema-on-read (“schemaless”) databases don’t enforce a schema, so the database can contain a mixture of older and newer data formats written at different times (see “Schema flexibility in the document model”).
我们在第三章讨论的数据模型以不同的方式应对这种变化。关系数据库通常假设数据库中的所有数据都符合一个模式：尽管该模式可以通过模式迁移（即 ALTER 语句）进行更改，但在任何时刻都只有一个模式有效。相比之下，按需模式（“无模式”）数据库不强制执行模式，因此数据库可以包含在不同时间写入的旧数据和新数据格式的混合（参见“文档模型中的模式灵活性”）。

When a data format or schema changes, a corresponding change to application code often needs to happen (for example, you add a new field to a record, and the application code starts reading and writing that field). However, in a large application, code changes often cannot happen instantaneously:
当数据格式或模式发生变化时，应用程序代码通常也需要相应地进行更改（例如，您向记录中添加一个新字段，应用程序代码开始读取和写入该字段）。然而，在大型应用程序中，代码更改往往无法瞬间完成：

With server-side applications you may want to perform a rolling upgrade (also known as a staged rollout), deploying the new version to a few nodes at a time, checking whether the new version is running smoothly, and gradually working your way through all the nodes. This allows new versions to be deployed without service downtime, and thus encourages more frequent releases and better evolvability.
对于服务器端应用程序，您可能希望进行滚动升级（也称为分阶段发布），将新版本逐步部署到几个节点，检查新版本是否运行顺利，然后逐渐覆盖所有节点。这允许在没有服务停机的情况下部署新版本，从而鼓励更频繁的发布和更好的演进能力。

With client-side applications you’re at the mercy of the user, who may not install the update for some time.
对于客户端应用程序，您则要依赖用户，用户可能会在一段时间内不安装更新。

This means that old and new versions of the code, and old and new data formats, may potentially all coexist in the system at the same time. In order for the system to continue running smoothly, we need to maintain compatibility in both directions:
这意味着旧版本和新版本的代码，以及旧数据格式和新数据格式，可能会在系统中同时共存。为了确保系统能够继续顺利运行，我们需要在两个方向上保持兼容性：

Backward compatibility
向后兼容性
Newer code can read data that was written by older code.
较新的代码可以读取由较旧的代码写入的数据。

Forward compatibility
向前兼容性
Older code can read data that was written by newer code.
较旧的代码可以读取由较新的代码写入的数据。

Backward compatibility is normally not hard to achieve: as author of the newer code, you know the format of data written by older code, and so you can explicitly handle it (if necessary by simply keeping the old code to read the old data). Forward compatibility can be trickier, because it requires older code to ignore additions made by a newer version of the code.
向后兼容性通常不难实现：作为较新代码的作者，您知道较旧代码写入的数据格式，因此您可以明确处理它（如果有必要，可以简单地保留旧代码以读取旧数据）。向前兼容性可能更棘手，因为它要求旧代码忽略较新版本代码所做的添加。

Another challenge with forward compatibility is illustrated in Figure 5-1. Say you add a field to a record schema, and the newer code creates a record containing that new field and stores it in a database. Subsequently, an older version of the code (which doesn’t yet know about the new field) reads the record, updates it, and writes it back. In this situation, the desirable behavior is usually for the old code to keep the new field intact, even though it couldn’t be interpreted. But if the record is decoded into a model object that does not explicitly preserve unknown fields, data can be lost, like in Figure 5-1.
向前兼容性的另一个挑战在图 5-1 中得到了说明。假设你在记录模式中添加了一个字段，新的代码创建了一个包含该新字段的记录并将其存储在数据库中。随后，旧版本的代码（尚不知道新字段）读取该记录，更新它并写回。在这种情况下，通常期望的行为是旧代码能够保持新字段的完整性，即使它无法被解释。但是，如果记录被解码为一个不明确保留未知字段的模型对象，数据可能会丢失，如图 5-1 所示。

ddia 0501
Figure 5-1. When an older version of the application updates data previously written by a newer version of the application, data may be lost if you’re not careful.
图 5-1。当应用程序的旧版本更新由应用程序的新版本之前写入的数据时，如果不小心，数据可能会丢失。

In this chapter we will look at several formats for encoding data, including JSON, XML, Protocol Buffers, and Avro. In particular, we will look at how they handle schema changes and how they support systems where old and new data and code need to coexist. We will then discuss how those formats are used for data storage and for communication: in databases, web services, REST APIs, remote procedure calls (RPC), workflow engines, and event-driven systems such as actors and message queues.
在本章中，我们将探讨几种数据编码格式，包括 JSON、XML、Protocol Buffers 和 Avro。特别是，我们将关注它们如何处理模式变化，以及它们如何支持旧数据和新数据及代码共存的系统。然后，我们将讨论这些格式如何用于数据存储和通信：在数据库、Web 服务、REST API、远程过程调用（RPC）、工作流引擎以及事件驱动系统，如演员和消息队列中。

Formats for Encoding Data
数据编码格式

Programs usually work with data in (at least) two different representations:
程序通常以（至少）两种不同的表示形式处理数据：

In memory, data is kept in objects, structs, lists, arrays, hash tables, trees, and so on. These data structures are optimized for efficient access and manipulation by the CPU (typically using pointers).
在内存中，数据以对象、结构、列表、数组、哈希表、树等形式存储。这些数据结构经过优化，以便 CPU（通常使用指针）能够高效地访问和操作。

When you want to write data to a file or send it over the network, you have to encode it as some kind of self-contained sequence of bytes (for example, a JSON document). Since a pointer wouldn’t make sense to any other process, this sequence-of-bytes representation often looks quite different from the data structures that are normally used in memory.
当你想将数据写入文件或通过网络发送时，必须将其编码为某种自包含的字节序列（例如，JSON 文档）。由于指针对其他进程没有意义，因此这种字节序列表示通常与内存中通常使用的数据结构看起来相差甚远。

Thus, we need some kind of translation between the two representations. The translation from the in-memory representation to a byte sequence is called encoding (also known as serialization or marshalling), and the reverse is called decoding (parsing, deserialization, unmarshalling).
因此，我们需要在这两种表示之间进行某种转换。从内存表示到字节序列的转换称为编码（也称为序列化或封送），而反向过程称为解码（解析、反序列化、解封送）。

Terminology clash
术语冲突

Serialization is unfortunately also used in the context of transactions (see Chapter 8), with a completely different meaning. To avoid overloading the word we’ll stick with encoding in this book, even though serialization is perhaps a more common term.
不幸的是，序列化在事务的上下文中也被使用（见第 8 章），其含义完全不同。为了避免对这个词的过度使用，我们在本书中将坚持使用编码，尽管序列化可能是一个更常见的术语。

There are exceptions in which encoding/decoding is not needed—for example, when a database operates directly on compressed data loaded from disk, as discussed in “Query Execution: Compilation and Vectorization”. There are also zero-copy data formats that are designed to be used both at runtime and on disk/on the network, without an explicit conversion step, such as Cap’n Proto and FlatBuffers.
在某些情况下，不需要进行编码/解码——例如，当数据库直接对从磁盘加载的压缩数据进行操作时，如“查询执行：编译和向量化”中所讨论的那样。还有一些零拷贝数据格式，旨在在运行时和磁盘/网络上使用，而无需显式的转换步骤，例如 Cap’n Proto 和 FlatBuffers。

However, most systems need to convert between in-memory objects and flat byte sequences. As this is such a common problem, there are a myriad different libraries and encoding formats to choose from. Let’s do a brief overview.
然而，大多数系统需要在内存对象和扁平字节序列之间进行转换。由于这是一个非常常见的问题，因此有无数不同的库和编码格式可供选择。让我们做一个简要概述。

Language-Specific Formats
特定语言格式

Many programming languages come with built-in support for encoding in-memory objects into byte sequences. For example, Java has java.io.Serializable, Python has pickle, Ruby has Marshal, and so on. Many third-party libraries also exist, such as Kryo for Java.
许多编程语言内置支持将内存对象编码为字节序列。例如，Java 有 java.io.Serializable ，Python 有 pickle ，Ruby 有 Marshal ，等等。还有许多第三方库，例如 Java 的 Kryo。

These encoding libraries are very convenient, because they allow in-memory objects to be saved and restored with minimal additional code. However, they also have a number of deep problems:
这些编码库非常方便，因为它们允许以最少的额外代码保存和恢复内存中的对象。然而，它们也存在许多深层次的问题：

The encoding is often tied to a particular programming language, and reading the data in another language is very difficult. If you store or transmit data in such an encoding, you are committing yourself to your current programming language for potentially a very long time, and precluding integrating your systems with those of other organizations (which may use different languages).
编码通常与特定的编程语言相关联，在另一种语言中读取数据非常困难。如果您以这种编码存储或传输数据，您就将自己锁定在当前的编程语言中，可能会持续很长时间，并且排除了与其他组织（可能使用不同语言）系统的集成。

In order to restore data in the same object types, the decoding process needs to be able to instantiate arbitrary classes. This is frequently a source of security problems [1]: if an attacker can get your application to decode an arbitrary byte sequence, they can instantiate arbitrary classes, which in turn often allows them to do terrible things such as remotely executing arbitrary code [2, 3].
为了在相同的对象类型中恢复数据，解码过程需要能够实例化任意类。这通常是安全问题的来源 [1]：如果攻击者能够让您的应用程序解码任意字节序列，他们就可以实例化任意类，这反过来往往允许他们做一些可怕的事情，例如远程执行任意代码 [2, 3]。

Versioning data is often an afterthought in these libraries: as they are intended for quick and easy encoding of data, they often neglect the inconvenient problems of forward and backward compatibility [4].
在这些库中，数据版本控制通常是事后考虑的：由于它们旨在快速和轻松地编码数据，因此往往忽视了向前和向后兼容性的问题 [4]。

Efficiency (CPU time taken to encode or decode, and the size of the encoded structure) is also often an afterthought. For example, Java’s built-in serialization is notorious for its bad performance and bloated encoding [5].
效率（编码或解码所需的 CPU 时间，以及编码结构的大小）通常也是一个事后考虑的问题。例如，Java 的内置序列化因其糟糕的性能和臃肿的编码而臭名昭著 [5]。

For these reasons it’s generally a bad idea to use your language’s built-in encoding for anything other than very transient purposes.
出于这些原因，通常不建议将您所使用语言的内置编码用于除非常短暂的目的之外的任何其他用途。

JSON, XML, and Binary Variants
JSON、XML 和二进制变体

When moving to standardized encodings that can be written and read by many programming languages, JSON and XML are the obvious contenders. They are widely known, widely supported, and almost as widely disliked. XML is often criticized for being too verbose and unnecessarily complicated [6]. JSON’s popularity is mainly due to its built-in support in web browsers and simplicity relative to XML. CSV is another popular language-independent format, but it only supports tabular data without nesting.
在转向可以被多种编程语言读取和写入的标准化编码时，JSON 和 XML 是显而易见的竞争者。它们广为人知，得到广泛支持，但几乎同样受到广泛的厌恶。XML 常常因过于冗长和不必要的复杂性而受到批评 [6]。JSON 的流行主要归功于其在网页浏览器中的内置支持以及相对于 XML 的简单性。CSV 是另一种流行的语言无关格式，但它仅支持不带嵌套的表格数据。

JSON, XML, and CSV are textual formats, and thus somewhat human-readable (although the syntax is a popular topic of debate). Besides the superficial syntactic issues, they also have some subtle problems:
JSON、XML 和 CSV 是文本格式，因此在某种程度上是人类可读的（尽管语法是一个热门的争论话题）。除了表面的语法问题，它们还有一些微妙的问题：

There is a lot of ambiguity around the encoding of numbers. In XML and CSV, you cannot distinguish between a number and a string that happens to consist of digits (except by referring to an external schema). JSON distinguishes strings and numbers, but it doesn’t distinguish integers and floating-point numbers, and it doesn’t specify a precision.
关于数字的编码存在很多模糊性。在 XML 和 CSV 中，您无法区分一个数字和恰好由数字组成的字符串（除非参考外部模式）。JSON 区分字符串和数字，但它不区分整数和浮点数，也没有指定精度。

This is a problem when dealing with large numbers; for example, integers greater than 253 cannot be exactly represented in an IEEE 754 double-precision floating-point number, so such numbers become inaccurate when parsed in a language that uses floating-point numbers, such as JavaScript [7]. An example of numbers larger than 253 occurs on X (formerly Twitter), which uses a 64-bit number to identify each post. The JSON returned by the API includes post IDs twice, once as a JSON number and once as a decimal string, to work around the fact that the numbers are not correctly parsed by JavaScript applications [8].
在处理大数字时这是一个问题；例如，大于 2 53 的整数无法在 IEEE 754 双精度浮点数中准确表示，因此在使用浮点数的语言（如 JavaScript [7]）中解析时，这些数字会变得不准确。大于 2 53 的数字的一个例子出现在 X（前身为 Twitter）上，它使用 64 位数字来标识每个帖子。API 返回的 JSON 包含两次帖子 ID，一次作为 JSON 数字，一次作为十进制字符串，以解决这些数字在 JavaScript 应用程序中未被正确解析的问题 [8]。

JSON and XML have good support for Unicode character strings (i.e., human-readable text), but they don’t support binary strings (sequences of bytes without a character encoding). Binary strings are a useful feature, so people get around this limitation by encoding the binary data as text using Base64. The schema is then used to indicate that the value should be interpreted as Base64-encoded. This works, but it’s somewhat hacky and increases the data size by 33%.
JSON 和 XML 对 Unicode 字符串（即人类可读文本）有很好的支持，但它们不支持二进制字符串（没有字符编码的字节序列）。二进制字符串是一个有用的特性，因此人们通过使用 Base64 将二进制数据编码为文本来绕过这个限制。然后使用模式来指示该值应被解释为 Base64 编码。这是可行的，但有点黑客行为，并且增加了数据大小 33%。

XML Schema and JSON Schema are powerful, and thus quite complicated to learn and implement. Since the correct interpretation of data (such as numbers and binary strings) depends on information in the schema, applications that don’t use XML/JSON schemas need to potentially hard-code the appropriate encoding/decoding logic instead.
XML Schema 和 JSON Schema 功能强大，因此学习和实现起来相当复杂。由于数据（如数字和二进制字符串）的正确解释依赖于模式中的信息，因此不使用 XML/JSON 模式的应用程序可能需要硬编码适当的编码/解码逻辑。

CSV does not have any schema, so it is up to the application to define the meaning of each row and column. If an application change adds a new row or column, you have to handle that change manually. CSV is also a quite vague format (what happens if a value contains a comma or a newline character?). Although its escaping rules have been formally specified [9], not all parsers implement them correctly.
CSV 没有任何模式，因此由应用程序来定义每一行和每一列的含义。如果应用程序的更改添加了新的行或列，您必须手动处理该更改。CSV 也是一种相当模糊的格式（如果一个值包含逗号或换行符会发生什么？）。尽管其转义规则已被正式规定[9]，但并非所有解析器都能正确实现这些规则。

Despite these flaws, JSON, XML, and CSV are good enough for many purposes. It’s likely that they will remain popular, especially as data interchange formats (i.e., for sending data from one organization to another). In these situations, as long as people agree on what the format is, it often doesn’t matter how pretty or efficient the format is. The difficulty of getting different organizations to agree on anything outweighs most other concerns.
尽管存在这些缺陷，JSON、XML 和 CSV 在许多场合下仍然足够好。它们可能会继续流行，特别是在数据交换格式方面（即用于将数据从一个组织发送到另一个组织）。在这些情况下，只要人们对格式达成一致，格式的美观或效率往往并不重要。让不同组织在任何事情上达成一致的难度超过了大多数其他问题。

JSON Schema

JSON Schema has become widely adopted as a way to model data whenever it’s exchanged between systems or written to storage. You’ll find JSON schemas in web services (see “Web services”) as part of the OpenAPI web service specification, schema registries such as Confluent’s Schema Registry and Red Hat’s Apicurio Registry, and in databases such as PostgreSQL’s pg_jsonschema validator extension and MongoDB’s $jsonSchema validator syntax.
JSON Schema 已被广泛采用，作为在系统之间交换数据或写入存储时建模数据的一种方式。您会在 web 服务中找到 JSON Schema（参见“Web 服务”），作为 OpenAPI web 服务规范的一部分，在 Confluent 的 Schema Registry 和 Red Hat 的 Apicurio Registry 等模式注册中心，以及在 PostgreSQL 的 pg_jsonschema 验证器扩展和 MongoDB 的 $jsonSchema 验证器语法等数据库中。

The JSON Schema specification offers a number of features. Schemas include standard primitive types including strings, numbers, integers, objects, arrays, booleans, or nulls. But JSON Schema also offers a separate validation specification that allows developers to overlay constraints on fields. For example, a port field might have a minimum of 1 and a maximum of 65535.
JSON Schema 规范提供了许多功能。模式包括标准的基本类型，包括字符串、数字、整数、对象、数组、布尔值或 null。但 JSON Schema 还提供了一个单独的验证规范，允许开发人员在字段上叠加约束。例如， port 字段可能有最小值 1 和最大值 65535。

JSON Schemas can have either open or closed content models. An open content model permits any field not defined in the schema to exist with any data type, whereas a closed content model only allows fields that are explicitly defined. The open content model in JSON Schema is enabled when additionalProperties is set to true, which is the default. Thus, JSON Schemas are usually a definition of what isn’t permitted (namely, invalid values on any of the defined fields), rather than what is permitted in a schema.
JSON Schema 可以具有开放或封闭的内容模型。开放内容模型允许在模式中未定义的任何字段存在，并且可以使用任何数据类型，而封闭内容模型仅允许明确定义的字段。当 additionalProperties 设置为 true 时，JSON Schema 中的开放内容模型被启用，这也是默认设置。因此，JSON Schema 通常是对不被允许的内容的定义（即在任何定义字段上无效的值），而不是对模式中被允许内容的定义。

Open content models are powerful, but can be complex. For example, say you want to define a map from integers (such as IDs) to strings. JSON does not have a map or dictionary type, only an “object” type that can contain string keys, and values of any type. You can then constrain this type with JSON Schema so that keys may only contain digits, and values can only be strings, using patternProperties and additionalProperties as shown in Example 5-1.
开放内容模型功能强大，但可能会很复杂。例如，假设您想定义一个从整数（例如 ID）到字符串的映射。JSON 没有映射或字典类型，只有一种可以包含字符串键和任何类型值的“对象”类型。然后，您可以使用 JSON Schema 对此类型进行约束，以便键只能包含数字，值只能是字符串，使用 patternProperties 和 additionalProperties ，如示例 5-1 所示。

Example 5-1. Example JSON Schema with integer keys and string values. Integer keys are represented as strings containing only integers since JSON Schema requires all keys to be strings.
示例 5-1. 示例 JSON Schema，具有整数键和字符串值。整数键表示为仅包含整数的字符串，因为 JSON Schema 要求所有键必须是字符串。

{
"$schema": "http://json-schema.org/draft-07/schema#",
  "type": "object",
  "patternProperties": {
    "^[0-9]+$": {
"type": "string"
}
},
"additionalProperties": false
}
In addition to open and closed content models and validators, JSON Schema supports conditional if/else schema logic, named types, references to remote schemas, and much more. All of this makes for a very powerful schema language. Such features also make for unwieldy definitions. It can be challenging to resolve remote schemas, reason about conditional rules, or evolve schemas in a forwards or backwards compatible way [10]. Similar concerns apply to XML Schema [11].
除了开放和封闭的内容模型及验证器，JSON Schema 还支持条件的 if/else 模式逻辑、命名类型、对远程模式的引用等更多功能。这些都使得 JSON Schema 成为一种非常强大的模式语言。然而，这些特性也导致了定义的复杂性。解决远程模式、推理条件规则或以向前或向后兼容的方式演变模式可能会面临挑战 [10]。类似的问题也适用于 XML Schema [11]。

Binary encoding
二进制编码

JSON is less verbose than XML, but both still use a lot of space compared to binary formats. This observation led to the development of a profusion of binary encodings for JSON (MessagePack, CBOR, BSON, BJSON, UBJSON, BISON, Hessian, and Smile, to name a few) and for XML (WBXML and Fast Infoset, for example). These formats have been adopted in various niches, as they are more compact and sometimes faster to parse, but none of them are as widely adopted as the textual versions of JSON and XML [12].
JSON 的冗长程度低于 XML，但与二进制格式相比，两者仍然占用较多空间。这一观察促使了多种 JSON 的二进制编码格式的发展（例如 MessagePack、CBOR、BSON、BJSON、UBJSON、BISON、Hessian 和 Smile 等）以及 XML 的二进制编码格式（例如 WBXML 和 Fast Infoset）。这些格式在各个细分领域得到了应用，因为它们更紧凑，有时解析速度更快，但没有一种能像 JSON 和 XML 的文本版本那样被广泛采用 [12]。

Some of these formats extend the set of datatypes (e.g., distinguishing integers and floating-point numbers, or adding support for binary strings), but otherwise they keep the JSON/XML data model unchanged. In particular, since they don’t prescribe a schema, they need to include all the object field names within the encoded data. That is, in a binary encoding of the JSON document in Example 5-2, they will need to include the strings userName, favoriteNumber, and interests somewhere.
这些格式中的一些扩展了数据类型的集合（例如，区分整数和浮点数，或添加对二进制字符串的支持），但在其他方面保持了 JSON/XML 数据模型不变。特别是，由于它们不规定模式，因此需要在编码的数据中包含所有对象字段名称。也就是说，在示例 5-2 中 JSON 文档的二进制编码中，它们需要在某处包含字符串 userName 、 favoriteNumber 和 interests 。

Example 5-2. Example record which we will encode in several binary formats in this chapter
示例 5-2。我们将在本章中以几种二进制格式编码的示例记录

{
"userName": "Martin",
"favoriteNumber": 1337,
"interests": ["daydreaming", "hacking"]
}
Let’s look at an example of MessagePack, a binary encoding for JSON. Figure 5-2 shows the byte sequence that you get if you encode the JSON document in Example 5-2 with MessagePack. The first few bytes are as follows:
让我们看一个 MessagePack 的例子，这是 JSON 的一种二进制编码。图 5-2 显示了如果使用 MessagePack 编码示例 5-2 中的 JSON 文档所得到的字节序列。前几个字节如下：

The first byte, 0x83, indicates that what follows is an object (top four bits = 0x80) with three fields (bottom four bits = 0x03). (In case you’re wondering what happens if an object has more than 15 fields, so that the number of fields doesn’t fit in four bits, it then gets a different type indicator, and the number of fields is encoded in two or four bytes.)
第一个字节 0x83 表示后面跟着的是一个对象（前四位 = 0x80 ），它有三个字段（后四位 = 0x03 ）。 （如果你想知道如果一个对象有超过 15 个字段会发生什么，那么字段的数量无法放入四位中，它将获得一个不同的类型指示符，字段的数量将编码为两个或四个字节。）

The second byte, 0xa8, indicates that what follows is a string (top four bits = 0xa0) that is eight bytes long (bottom four bits = 0x08).
第二个字节， 0xa8 ，表示接下来的是一个字符串（高四位 = 0xa0 ），长度为八个字节（低四位 = 0x08 ）。

The next eight bytes are the field name userName in ASCII. Since the length was indicated previously, there’s no need for any marker to tell us where the string ends (or any escaping).
接下来的八个字节是字段名称 userName 的 ASCII 码。由于长度已在之前指明，因此不需要任何标记来告诉我们字符串何时结束（或任何转义）。

The next seven bytes encode the six-letter string value Martin with a prefix 0xa6, and so on.
接下来的七个字节编码了六个字母的字符串值 Martin ，前缀为 0xa6 ，依此类推。

The binary encoding is 66 bytes long, which is only a little less than the 81 bytes taken by the textual JSON encoding (with whitespace removed). All the binary encodings of JSON are similar in this regard. It’s not clear whether such a small space reduction (and perhaps a speedup in parsing) is worth the loss of human-readability.
二进制编码的长度为 66 字节，这比文本 JSON 编码（去除空白后）所占的 81 字节少了一点。所有 JSON 的二进制编码在这方面都是相似的。目前尚不清楚如此小的空间减少（以及可能的解析速度提升）是否值得牺牲人类可读性。

In the following sections we will see how we can do much better, and encode the same record in just 32 bytes.
在接下来的章节中，我们将看到如何做得更好，并将相同的记录编码为仅 32 个字节。

ddia 0502
Figure 5-2. Example record (Example 5-2) encoded using MessagePack.
图 5-2. 使用 MessagePack 编码的示例记录（示例 5-2）。

Protocol Buffers
协议缓冲区

Protocol Buffers (protobuf) is a binary encoding library developed at Google. It is similar to Apache Thrift, which was originally developed by Facebook [13]; most of what this section says about Protocol Buffers applies also to Thrift.
协议缓冲区（protobuf）是谷歌开发的二进制编码库。它类似于 Apache Thrift，后者最初由 Facebook 开发[13]；本节关于协议缓冲区的内容大部分也适用于 Thrift。

Protocol Buffers requires a schema for any data that is encoded. To encode the data in Example 5-2 in Protocol Buffers, you would describe the schema in the Protocol Buffers interface definition language (IDL) like this:
协议缓冲区需要为任何编码的数据提供一个模式。要在协议缓冲区中编码示例 5-2 中的数据，您需要使用协议缓冲区接口定义语言（IDL）描述模式，如下所示：

syntax = "proto3";

message Person {
string user_name = 1;
int64 favorite_number = 2;
repeated string interests = 3;
}
Protocol Buffers comes with a code generation tool that takes a schema definition like the one shown here, and produces classes that implement the schema in various programming languages. Your application code can call this generated code to encode or decode records of the schema. The schema language is very simple compared to JSON Schema: it only defines the fields of records and their types, but it does not support other restrictions on the possible values of fields.
协议缓冲区附带一个代码生成工具，该工具接受像这里所示的模式定义，并生成在各种编程语言中实现该模式的类。您的应用程序代码可以调用这些生成的代码来编码或解码该模式的记录。与 JSON Schema 相比，模式语言非常简单：它仅定义记录的字段及其类型，但不支持对字段可能值的其他限制。

Encoding Example 5-2 using a Protocol Buffers encoder requires 33 bytes, as shown in Figure 5-3 [14].
使用协议缓冲区编码器编码示例 5-2 需要 33 个字节，如图 5-3 所示[14]。

ddia 0503
Figure 5-3. Example record encoded using Protocol Buffers.
图 5-3. 使用协议缓冲区编码的示例记录。

Similarly to Figure 5-2, each field has a type annotation (to indicate whether it is a string, integer, etc.) and, where required, a length indication (such as the length of a string). The strings that appear in the data (“Martin”, “daydreaming”, “hacking”) are also encoded as ASCII (to be precise, UTF-8), similar to before.
与图 5-2 类似，每个字段都有一个类型注释（以指示它是字符串、整数等），并在需要时提供长度指示（例如字符串的长度）。数据中出现的字符串（“Martin”、“daydreaming”、“hacking”）也被编码为 ASCII（准确来说是 UTF-8），与之前类似。

The big difference compared to Figure 5-2 is that there are no field names (userName, favoriteNumber, interests). Instead, the encoded data contains field tags, which are numbers (1, 2, and 3). Those are the numbers that appear in the schema definition. Field tags are like aliases for fields—they are a compact way of saying what field we’re talking about, without having to spell out the field name.
与图 5-2 相比，最大的不同是没有字段名称（ userName 、 favoriteNumber 、 interests ）。相反，编码的数据包含字段标签，这些标签是数字（ 1 、 2 和 3 ）。这些数字出现在模式定义中。字段标签就像字段的别名——它们是一种紧凑的方式来表示我们正在讨论哪个字段，而不必拼写出字段名称。

As you can see, Protocol Buffers saves even more space by packing the field type and tag number into a single byte. It uses variable-length integers: the number 1337 is encoded in two bytes, with the top bit of each byte used to indicate whether there are still more bytes to come. This means numbers between –64 and 63 are encoded in one byte, numbers between –8192 and 8191 are encoded in two bytes, etc. Bigger numbers use more bytes.
正如你所看到的，协议缓冲区通过将字段类型和标签编号打包到一个字节中，节省了更多空间。它使用可变长度的整数：数字 1337 被编码为两个字节，每个字节的最高位用于指示是否还有更多字节。这意味着介于-64 和 63 之间的数字编码为一个字节，介于-8192 和 8191 之间的数字编码为两个字节，等等。更大的数字使用更多字节。

Protocol Buffers doesn’t have an explicit list or array datatype. Instead, the repeated modifier on the interests field indicates that the field contains a list of values, rather than a single value. In the binary encoding, the list elements are represented simply as repeated occurrences of the same field tag within the same record.
Protocol Buffers 并没有一个明确的列表或数组数据类型。相反， repeated 修饰符在 interests 字段上表示该字段包含一个值的列表，而不是单个值。在二进制编码中，列表元素仅通过在同一记录中重复出现相同的字段标签来表示。

Field tags and schema evolution
字段标签和模式演变

We said previously that schemas inevitably need to change over time. We call this schema evolution. How does Protocol Buffers handle schema changes while keeping backward and forward compatibility?
我们之前提到过，模式不可避免地需要随着时间而变化。我们称之为模式演变。Protocol Buffers 如何处理模式变化，同时保持向后和向前兼容？

As you can see from the examples, an encoded record is just the concatenation of its encoded fields. Each field is identified by its tag number (the numbers 1, 2, 3 in the sample schema) and annotated with a datatype (e.g., string or integer). If a field value is not set, it is simply omitted from the encoded record. From this you can see that field tags are critical to the meaning of the encoded data. You can change the name of a field in the schema, since the encoded data never refers to field names, but you cannot change a field’s tag, since that would make all existing encoded data invalid.
正如您从示例中看到的，编码记录只是其编码字段的串联。每个字段通过其标签编号（示例模式中的数字 1 、 2 、 3 ）进行标识，并带有数据类型的注释（例如，字符串或整数）。如果字段值未设置，它将简单地从编码记录中省略。从这一点可以看出，字段标签对编码数据的含义至关重要。您可以更改模式中字段的名称，因为编码数据从不引用字段名称，但您不能更改字段的标签，因为那样会使所有现有的编码数据无效。

You can add new fields to the schema, provided that you give each field a new tag number. If old code (which doesn’t know about the new tag numbers you added) tries to read data written by new code, including a new field with a tag number it doesn’t recognize, it can simply ignore that field. The datatype annotation allows the parser to determine how many bytes it needs to skip, and preserve the unknown fields to avoid the problem in Figure 5-1. This maintains forward compatibility: old code can read records that were written by new code.
您可以向模式中添加新字段，只要为每个字段分配一个新的标签编号。如果旧代码（不知道您添加的新标签编号）尝试读取由新代码写入的数据，包括一个它不识别的新字段标签编号，它可以简单地忽略该字段。数据类型注释允许解析器确定需要跳过多少字节，并保留未知字段，以避免图 5-1 中的问题。这保持了向前兼容性：旧代码可以读取由新代码写入的记录。

What about backward compatibility? As long as each field has a unique tag number, new code can always read old data, because the tag numbers still have the same meaning. If a field was added in the new schema, and you read old data that does not yet contain that field, it is filled in with a default value (for example, the empty string if the field type is string, or zero if it’s a number).
那么向后兼容性呢？只要每个字段都有一个唯一的标签编号，新代码始终可以读取旧数据，因为标签编号仍然具有相同的含义。如果在新模式中添加了一个字段，而您读取的旧数据尚未包含该字段，则该字段将填充为默认值（例如，如果字段类型为字符串，则为空字符串；如果是数字，则为零）。

Removing a field is just like adding a field, with backward and forward compatibility concerns reversed. You can never use the same tag number again, because you may still have data written somewhere that includes the old tag number, and that field must be ignored by new code. Tag numbers used in the past can be reserved in the schema definition to ensure they are not forgotten.
删除字段就像添加字段一样，只是向后和向前兼容性的问题相反。你不能再次使用相同的标签编号，因为你可能仍然在某处有数据包含旧的标签编号，而新代码必须忽略该字段。过去使用的标签编号可以在模式定义中保留，以确保它们不会被遗忘。

What about changing the datatype of a field? That is possible with some types—check the documentation for details—but there is a risk that values will get truncated. For example, say you change a 32-bit integer into a 64-bit integer. New code can easily read data written by old code, because the parser can fill in any missing bits with zeros. However, if old code reads data written by new code, the old code is still using a 32-bit variable to hold the value. If the decoded 64-bit value won’t fit in 32 bits, it will be truncated.
那么，改变字段的数据类型呢？对于某些类型，这是可能的——请查看文档以获取详细信息——但存在值被截断的风险。例如，假设你将一个 32 位整数更改为 64 位整数。新代码可以轻松读取旧代码写入的数据，因为解析器可以用零填充任何缺失的位。然而，如果旧代码读取新代码写入的数据，旧代码仍然使用 32 位变量来保存该值。如果解码后的 64 位值无法适应 32 位，它将被截断。

Avro

Apache Avro is another binary encoding format that is interestingly different from Protocol Buffers. It was started in 2009 as a subproject of Hadoop, as a result of Protocol Buffers not being a good fit for Hadoop’s use cases [15].
Apache Avro 是另一种二进制编码格式，与协议缓冲区有趣地不同。它于 2009 年作为 Hadoop 的一个子项目启动，因为协议缓冲区并不适合 Hadoop 的用例[15]。

Avro also uses a schema to specify the structure of the data being encoded. It has two schema languages: one (Avro IDL) intended for human editing, and one (based on JSON) that is more easily machine-readable. Like Protocol Buffers, this schema language specifies only fields and their types, and not complex validation rules like in JSON Schema.
Avro 还使用模式来指定被编码数据的结构。它有两种模式语言：一种（Avro IDL）旨在供人类编辑，另一种（基于 JSON）则更易于机器读取。与 Protocol Buffers 类似，这种模式语言仅指定字段及其类型，而不包含像 JSON Schema 中那样复杂的验证规则。

Our example schema, written in Avro IDL, might look like this:
我们的示例模式，使用 Avro IDL 编写，可能如下所示：

record Person {
string userName;
union { null, long } favoriteNumber = null;
array<string> interests;
}
The equivalent JSON representation of that schema is as follows:
该模式的等效 JSON 表示如下：

{
"type": "record",
"name": "Person",
"fields": [
{"name": "userName", "type": "string"},
{"name": "favoriteNumber", "type": ["null", "long"], "default": null},
{"name": "interests", "type": {"type": "array", "items": "string"}}
]
}
First of all, notice that there are no tag numbers in the schema. If we encode our example record (Example 5-2) using this schema, the Avro binary encoding is just 32 bytes long—the most compact of all the encodings we have seen. The breakdown of the encoded byte sequence is shown in Figure 5-4.
首先，请注意模式中没有标签编号。如果我们使用这个模式对我们的示例记录（示例 5-2）进行编码，Avro 二进制编码仅为 32 字节长——这是我们见过的所有编码中最紧凑的。编码字节序列的详细信息如图 5-4 所示。

If you examine the byte sequence, you can see that there is nothing to identify fields or their datatypes. The encoding simply consists of values concatenated together. A string is just a length prefix followed by UTF-8 bytes, but there’s nothing in the encoded data that tells you that it is a string. It could just as well be an integer, or something else entirely. An integer is encoded using a variable-length encoding.
如果你检查字节序列，你会发现没有任何东西可以识别字段或它们的数据类型。编码仅仅是将值连接在一起。一个字符串只是一个长度前缀，后面跟着 UTF-8 字节，但在编码数据中没有任何东西告诉你它是一个字符串。它也可能是一个整数，或者完全是其他东西。整数是使用可变长度编码进行编码的。

ddia 0504
Figure 5-4. Example record encoded using Avro.
图 5-4. 使用 Avro 编码的示例记录。

To parse the binary data, you go through the fields in the order that they appear in the schema and use the schema to tell you the datatype of each field. This means that the binary data can only be decoded correctly if the code reading the data is using the exact same schema as the code that wrote the data. Any mismatch in the schema between the reader and the writer would mean incorrectly decoded data.
要解析二进制数据，你需要按照它们在模式中出现的顺序遍历字段，并使用模式来告诉你每个字段的数据类型。这意味着只有在读取数据的代码使用与写入数据的代码完全相同的模式时，二进制数据才能被正确解码。读取者和写入者之间的任何模式不匹配都将导致数据解码不正确。

So, how does Avro support schema evolution?
那么，Avro 如何支持模式演变？

The writer’s schema and the reader’s schema
写入者的模式和读取者的模式

When an application wants to encode some data (to write it to a file or database, to send it over the network, etc.), it encodes the data using whatever version of the schema it knows about—for example, that schema may be compiled into the application. This is known as the writer’s schema.
当一个应用程序想要编码一些数据（将其写入文件或数据库，或通过网络发送等）时，它使用它所知道的任何版本的模式来编码数据——例如，该模式可能已编译到应用程序中。这被称为写入者的模式。

When an application wants to decode some data (read it from a file or database, receive it from the network, etc.), it uses two schemas: the writer’s schema that is identical to the one used for encoding, and the reader’s schema, which may be different. This is illustrated in Figure 5-5. The reader’s schema defines the fields of each record that the application code is expecting, and their types.
当一个应用程序想要解码一些数据（从文件或数据库中读取，或从网络接收等）时，它使用两种模式：与编码时使用的模式相同的写入者模式，以及可能不同的读取者模式。这在图 5-5 中进行了说明。读取者模式定义了应用程序代码所期望的每个记录的字段及其类型。

ddia 0505
Figure 5-5. In Protocol Buffers, encoding and decoding can use different versions of a schema. In Avro, decoding uses two schemas: the writer’s schema must be identical to the one used for encoding, but the reader’s schema can be an older or newer version.
图 5-5。在协议缓冲区中，编码和解码可以使用不同版本的模式。在 Avro 中，解码使用两种模式：写入者模式必须与编码时使用的模式相同，但读取者模式可以是较旧或较新的版本。

If the reader’s and writer’s schema are the same, decoding is easy. If they are different, Avro resolves the differences by looking at the writer’s schema and the reader’s schema side by side and translating the data from the writer’s schema into the reader’s schema. The Avro specification [16, 17] defines exactly how this resolution works, and it is illustrated in Figure 5-6.
如果读者的模式和写者的模式相同，解码就很简单。如果它们不同，Avro 通过并排查看写者的模式和读者的模式来解决差异，并将数据从写者的模式转换为读者的模式。Avro 规范[16, 17]准确地定义了这种解析是如何工作的，并在图 5-6 中进行了说明。

For example, it’s no problem if the writer’s schema and the reader’s schema have their fields in a different order, because the schema resolution matches up the fields by field name. If the code reading the data encounters a field that appears in the writer’s schema but not in the reader’s schema, it is ignored. If the code reading the data expects some field, but the writer’s schema does not contain a field of that name, it is filled in with a default value declared in the reader’s schema.
例如，如果写者的模式和读者的模式的字段顺序不同也没问题，因为模式解析是通过字段名称来匹配字段的。如果读取数据的代码遇到一个在写者的模式中出现但在读者的模式中没有的字段，则该字段会被忽略。如果读取数据的代码期望某个字段，但写者的模式中没有该名称的字段，则会用读者的模式中声明的默认值填充。

ddia 0506
Figure 5-6. An Avro reader resolves differences between the writer’s schema and the reader’s schema.
图 5-6. Avro 读取器解决写者的模式和读者的模式之间的差异。

Schema evolution rules
模式演变规则

With Avro, forward compatibility means that you can have a new version of the schema as writer and an old version of the schema as reader. Conversely, backward compatibility means that you can have a new version of the schema as reader and an old version as writer.
使用 Avro，向前兼容性意味着您可以将新版本的模式作为写入者，而将旧版本的模式作为读取者。相反，向后兼容性意味着您可以将新版本的模式作为读取者，而将旧版本的模式作为写入者。

To maintain compatibility, you may only add or remove a field that has a default value. (The field favoriteNumber in our Avro schema has a default value of null.) For example, say you add a field with a default value, so this new field exists in the new schema but not the old one. When a reader using the new schema reads a record written with the old schema, the default value is filled in for the missing field.
为了保持兼容性，您只能添加或删除具有默认值的字段。（我们 Avro 模式中的字段 favoriteNumber 具有默认值 null 。）例如，假设您添加了一个具有默认值的字段，因此这个新字段在新模式中存在，但在旧模式中不存在。当使用新模式的读取者读取使用旧模式写入的记录时，缺失字段的默认值将被填充。

If you were to add a field that has no default value, new readers wouldn’t be able to read data written by old writers, so you would break backward compatibility. If you were to remove a field that has no default value, old readers wouldn’t be able to read data written by new writers, so you would break forward compatibility.
如果您添加一个没有默认值的字段，新读取者将无法读取由旧写入者写入的数据，因此您将破坏向后兼容性。如果您删除一个没有默认值的字段，旧读取者将无法读取由新写入者写入的数据，因此您将破坏向前兼容性。

In some programming languages, null is an acceptable default for any variable, but this is not the case in Avro: if you want to allow a field to be null, you have to use a union type. For example, union { null, long, string } field; indicates that field can be a number, or a string, or null. You can only use null as a default value if it is the first branch of the union. This is a little more verbose than having everything nullable by default, but it helps prevent bugs by being explicit about what can and cannot be null [18].
在某些编程语言中， null 是任何变量的可接受默认值，但在 Avro 中并非如此：如果您想允许一个字段为 null，您必须使用联合类型。例如， union { null, long, string } field; 表示 field 可以是一个数字、一个字符串或 null。您只能在联合的第一个分支中使用 null 作为默认值。这比默认情况下所有内容都可为 null 要冗长一些，但通过明确说明什么可以为 null 和什么不可以为 null，有助于防止错误 [18]。

Changing the datatype of a field is possible, provided that Avro can convert the type. Changing the name of a field is possible but a little tricky: the reader’s schema can contain aliases for field names, so it can match an old writer’s schema field names against the aliases. This means that changing a field name is backward compatible but not forward compatible. Similarly, adding a branch to a union type is backward compatible but not forward compatible.
更改字段的数据类型是可能的，前提是 Avro 可以转换该类型。更改字段的名称是可能的，但有点棘手：读取器的模式可以包含字段名称的别名，因此可以将旧写入者的模式字段名称与别名进行匹配。这意味着更改字段名称是向后兼容的，但不是向前兼容的。同样，向联合类型添加一个分支是向后兼容的，但不是向前兼容的。

But what is the writer’s schema?
但什么是写入者的模式？

There is an important question that we’ve glossed over so far: how does the reader know the writer’s schema with which a particular piece of data was encoded? We can’t just include the entire schema with every record, because the schema would likely be much bigger than the encoded data, making all the space savings from the binary encoding futile.
有一个重要的问题我们到目前为止还没有提到：读者如何知道特定数据编码所使用的写入者模式？我们不能在每条记录中都包含整个模式，因为模式可能会比编码的数据大得多，这样就会使得二进制编码所带来的空间节省变得毫无意义。

The answer depends on the context in which Avro is being used. To give a few examples:
答案取决于 Avro 使用的上下文。举几个例子：

Large file with lots of records
包含大量记录的大文件
A common use for Avro is for storing a large file containing millions of records, all encoded with the same schema. (We will discuss this kind of situation in [Link to Come].) In this case, the writer of that file can just include the writer’s schema once at the beginning of the file. Avro specifies a file format (object container files) to do this.
Avro 的一个常见用途是存储一个包含数百万条记录的大文件，所有记录都使用相同的模式进行编码。（我们将在[链接即将到来]中讨论这种情况。）在这种情况下，文件的写入者可以在文件开头只包含一次写入者模式。Avro 指定了一种文件格式（对象容器文件）来实现这一点。

Database with individually written records
具有单独编写记录的数据库
In a database, different records may be written at different points in time using different writer’s schemas—you cannot assume that all the records will have the same schema. The simplest solution is to include a version number at the beginning of every encoded record, and to keep a list of schema versions in your database. A reader can fetch a record, extract the version number, and then fetch the writer’s schema for that version number from the database. Using that writer’s schema, it can decode the rest of the record. Confluent’s schema registry for Apache Kafka [19] and LinkedIn’s Espresso [20] work this way, for example.
在数据库中，不同的记录可能在不同的时间点使用不同的写入者模式进行编写——你不能假设所有记录都具有相同的模式。最简单的解决方案是在每个编码记录的开头包含一个版本号，并在数据库中保留一个模式版本列表。读取者可以获取记录，提取版本号，然后从数据库中获取该版本号的写入者模式。使用该写入者模式，它可以解码记录的其余部分。例如，Confluent 的 Apache Kafka 模式注册表 [19] 和 LinkedIn 的 Espresso [20] 就是这样工作的。

Sending records over a network connection
通过网络连接发送记录
When two processes are communicating over a bidirectional network connection, they can negotiate the schema version on connection setup and then use that schema for the lifetime of the connection. The Avro RPC protocol (see “Dataflow Through Services: REST and RPC”) works like this.
当两个进程通过双向网络连接进行通信时，它们可以在连接建立时协商模式版本，然后在连接的整个生命周期内使用该模式。Avro RPC 协议（参见“通过服务的数据流：REST 和 RPC”）就是这样工作的。

A database of schema versions is a useful thing to have in any case, since it acts as documentation and gives you a chance to check schema compatibility [21]. As the version number, you could use a simple incrementing integer, or you could use a hash of the schema.
数据库的模式版本记录在任何情况下都是有用的，因为它充当文档，并给你机会检查模式兼容性 [21]。作为版本号，你可以使用一个简单的递增整数，或者使用模式的哈希值。

Dynamically generated schemas
动态生成的模式

One advantage of Avro’s approach, compared to Protocol Buffers, is that the schema doesn’t contain any tag numbers. But why is this important? What’s the problem with keeping a couple of numbers in the schema?
与协议缓冲区相比，Avro 方法的一个优势是模式不包含任何标签编号。但这为什么重要呢？在模式中保留几个数字有什么问题？

The difference is that Avro is friendlier to dynamically generated schemas. For example, say you have a relational database whose contents you want to dump to a file, and you want to use a binary format to avoid the aforementioned problems with textual formats (JSON, CSV, XML). If you use Avro, you can fairly easily generate an Avro schema (in the JSON representation we saw earlier) from the relational schema and encode the database contents using that schema, dumping it all to an Avro object container file [22]. You can generate a record schema for each database table, and each column becomes a field in that record. The column name in the database maps to the field name in Avro.
区别在于 Avro 对动态生成的模式更友好。例如，假设你有一个关系数据库，其内容你想导出到文件中，并且你想使用二进制格式以避免前面提到的文本格式（JSON、CSV、XML）的问题。如果你使用 Avro，你可以相对容易地从关系模式生成一个 Avro 模式（在我们之前看到的 JSON 表示中），并使用该模式编码数据库内容，将其全部导出到一个 Avro 对象容器文件 [22]。你可以为每个数据库表生成一个记录模式，每一列成为该记录中的一个字段。数据库中的列名映射到 Avro 中的字段名。

Now, if the database schema changes (for example, a table has one column added and one column removed), you can just generate a new Avro schema from the updated database schema and export data in the new Avro schema. The data export process does not need to pay any attention to the schema change—it can simply do the schema conversion every time it runs. Anyone who reads the new data files will see that the fields of the record have changed, but since the fields are identified by name, the updated writer’s schema can still be matched up with the old reader’s schema.
现在，如果数据库模式发生变化（例如，一个表添加了一列并移除了一列），您只需从更新后的数据库模式生成一个新的 Avro 模式，并以新的 Avro 模式导出数据。数据导出过程不需要关注模式变化——它可以在每次运行时简单地进行模式转换。任何读取新数据文件的人都会看到记录的字段发生了变化，但由于字段是通过名称来识别的，更新后的写入者模式仍然可以与旧的读取者模式匹配。

By contrast, if you were using Protocol Buffers for this purpose, the field tags would likely have to be assigned by hand: every time the database schema changes, an administrator would have to manually update the mapping from database column names to field tags. (It might be possible to automate this, but the schema generator would have to be very careful to not assign previously used field tags.) This kind of dynamically generated schema simply wasn’t a design goal of Protocol Buffers, whereas it was for Avro.
相比之下，如果您使用协议缓冲区来实现这一目的，字段标签可能需要手动分配：每次数据库模式变化时，管理员都必须手动更新数据库列名与字段标签之间的映射。（这可能可以自动化，但模式生成器必须非常小心，以免分配之前使用过的字段标签。）这种动态生成的模式根本不是协议缓冲区的设计目标，而是 Avro 的设计目标。

The Merits of Schemas
模式的优点

As we saw, Protocol Buffers and Avro both use a schema to describe a binary encoding format. Their schema languages are much simpler than XML Schema or JSON Schema, which support much more detailed validation rules (e.g., “the string value of this field must match this regular expression” or “the integer value of this field must be between 0 and 100”). As Protocol Buffers and Avro are simpler to implement and simpler to use, they have grown to support a fairly wide range of programming languages.
正如我们所看到的，Protocol Buffers 和 Avro 都使用模式来描述二进制编码格式。它们的模式语言比 XML Schema 或 JSON Schema 简单得多，后者支持更详细的验证规则（例如，“该字段的字符串值必须匹配此正则表达式”或“该字段的整数值必须在 0 到 100 之间”）。由于 Protocol Buffers 和 Avro 更易于实现和使用，因此它们已经支持了相当广泛的编程语言。

The ideas on which these encodings are based are by no means new. For example, they have a lot in common with ASN.1, a schema definition language that was first standardized in 1984 [23, 24]. It was used to define various network protocols, and its binary encoding (DER) is still used to encode SSL certificates (X.509), for example [25]. ASN.1 supports schema evolution using tag numbers, similar to Protocol Buffers [26]. However, it’s also very complex and badly documented, so ASN.1 is probably not a good choice for new applications.
这些编码所基于的思想绝不是新鲜事物。例如，它们与 ASN.1 有很多共同之处，ASN.1 是一种模式定义语言，首次在 1984 年标准化 [ 23, 24]。它用于定义各种网络协议，其二进制编码（DER）至今仍用于编码 SSL 证书（X.509），例如 [ 25]。ASN.1 使用标签编号支持模式演变，类似于 Protocol Buffers [ 26]。然而，它也非常复杂且文档不完善，因此 ASN.1 可能不是新应用程序的好选择。

Many data systems also implement some kind of proprietary binary encoding for their data. For example, most relational databases have a network protocol over which you can send queries to the database and get back responses. Those protocols are generally specific to a particular database, and the database vendor provides a driver (e.g., using the ODBC or JDBC APIs) that decodes responses from the database’s network protocol into in-memory data structures.
许多数据系统还实现了一种专有的二进制编码来存储它们的数据。例如，大多数关系数据库都有一个网络协议，通过该协议可以向数据库发送查询并获取响应。这些协议通常特定于某个特定的数据库，数据库供应商提供一个驱动程序（例如，使用 ODBC 或 JDBC API），将来自数据库网络协议的响应解码为内存中的数据结构。

So, we can see that although textual data formats such as JSON, XML, and CSV are widespread, binary encodings based on schemas are also a viable option. They have a number of nice properties:
因此，我们可以看到，尽管像 JSON、XML 和 CSV 这样的文本数据格式非常普遍，但基于模式的二进制编码也是一个可行的选择。它们具有许多优良特性：

They can be much more compact than the various “binary JSON” variants, since they can omit field names from the encoded data.
它们可以比各种“二进制 JSON”变体更加紧凑，因为它们可以省略编码数据中的字段名称。

The schema is a valuable form of documentation, and because the schema is required for decoding, you can be sure that it is up to date (whereas manually maintained documentation may easily diverge from reality).
模式是一种有价值的文档形式，并且由于解码需要模式，您可以确保它是最新的（而手动维护的文档可能很容易与现实脱节）。

Keeping a database of schemas allows you to check forward and backward compatibility of schema changes, before anything is deployed.
保持一个模式数据库可以让您在任何内容部署之前检查模式更改的向前和向后兼容性。

For users of statically typed programming languages, the ability to generate code from the schema is useful, since it enables type-checking at compile time.
对于静态类型编程语言的用户，从模式生成代码的能力是有用的，因为它可以在编译时进行类型检查。

In summary, schema evolution allows the same kind of flexibility as schemaless/schema-on-read JSON databases provide (see “Schema flexibility in the document model”), while also providing better guarantees about your data and better tooling.
总之，模式演变提供了与无模式/按需模式 JSON 数据库相同类型的灵活性（参见“文档模型中的模式灵活性”），同时也提供了更好的数据保证和更好的工具。

Modes of Dataflow
数据流模式

At the beginning of this chapter we said that whenever you want to send some data to another process with which you don’t share memory—for example, whenever you want to send data over the network or write it to a file—you need to encode it as a sequence of bytes. We then discussed a variety of different encodings for doing this.
在本章开始时，我们提到每当您想要将一些数据发送到另一个与您不共享内存的进程时——例如，每当您想通过网络发送数据或将其写入文件时——您需要将其编码为字节序列。然后我们讨论了多种不同的编码方式来实现这一点。

We talked about forward and backward compatibility, which are important for evolvability (making change easy by allowing you to upgrade different parts of your system independently, and not having to change everything at once). Compatibility is a relationship between one process that encodes the data, and another process that decodes it.
我们谈到了向前和向后兼容性，这对于可演化性非常重要（通过允许您独立升级系统的不同部分，使更改变得容易，而不必一次性更改所有内容）。兼容性是一个进程编码数据与另一个进程解码数据之间的关系。

That’s a fairly abstract idea—there are many ways data can flow from one process to another. Who encodes the data, and who decodes it? In the rest of this chapter we will explore some of the most common ways how data flows between processes:
这是一个相当抽象的概念——数据可以通过多种方式从一个进程流向另一个进程。谁来编码数据，谁来解码数据？在本章的其余部分，我们将探讨数据在进程之间流动的一些最常见方式：

Via databases (see “Dataflow Through Databases”)
通过数据库（见“通过数据库的数据流”）

Via service calls (see “Dataflow Through Services: REST and RPC”)
通过服务调用（见“通过服务的数据流：REST 和 RPC”）

Via workflow engines (see “Durable Execution and Workflows”)
通过工作流引擎（见“持久执行和工作流”）

Via asynchronous messages (see “Event-Driven Architectures”)
通过异步消息（见“事件驱动架构”）

Dataflow Through Databases
数据在数据库中的流动

In a database, the process that writes to the database encodes the data, and the process that reads from the database decodes it. There may just be a single process accessing the database, in which case the reader is simply a later version of the same process—in that case you can think of storing something in the database as sending a message to your future self.
在数据库中，写入数据库的过程对数据进行编码，而从数据库读取的过程则对其进行解码。可能只有一个进程在访问数据库，在这种情况下，读取者只是同一进程的后续版本——在这种情况下，你可以将存储在数据库中的内容视为向未来的自己发送一条消息。

Backward compatibility is clearly necessary here; otherwise your future self won’t be able to decode what you previously wrote.
向后兼容性在这里显然是必要的；否则你的未来自我将无法解码你之前写的内容。

In general, it’s common for several different processes to be accessing a database at the same time. Those processes might be several different applications or services, or they may simply be several instances of the same service (running in parallel for scalability or fault tolerance). Either way, in an environment where the application is changing, it is likely that some processes accessing the database will be running newer code and some will be running older code—for example because a new version is currently being deployed in a rolling upgrade, so some instances have been updated while others haven’t yet.
一般来说，多个不同的进程同时访问数据库是很常见的。这些进程可能是几个不同的应用程序或服务，或者它们可能只是同一服务的几个实例（为了可扩展性或容错而并行运行）。无论哪种方式，在应用程序不断变化的环境中，访问数据库的一些进程可能正在运行较新的代码，而一些则在运行较旧的代码——例如，因为当前正在进行滚动升级的新版本部署，所以一些实例已经更新，而其他实例尚未更新。

This means that a value in the database may be written by a newer version of the code, and subsequently read by an older version of the code that is still running. Thus, forward compatibility is also often required for databases.
这意味着数据库中的一个值可能会被代码的新版本写入，随后被仍在运行的旧版本代码读取。因此，数据库通常也需要向前兼容。

Different values written at different times
在不同时间写入不同的值

A database generally allows any value to be updated at any time. This means that within a single database you may have some values that were written five milliseconds ago, and some values that were written five years ago.
数据库通常允许在任何时间更新任何值。这意味着在单个数据库中，您可能会有一些值是五毫秒前写入的，还有一些值是五年前写入的。

When you deploy a new version of your application (of a server-side application, at least), you may entirely replace the old version with the new version within a few minutes. The same is not true of database contents: the five-year-old data will still be there, in the original encoding, unless you have explicitly rewritten it since then. This observation is sometimes summed up as data outlives code.
当您部署应用程序的新版本（至少是服务器端应用程序）时，您可能会在几分钟内完全用新版本替换旧版本。但数据库内容并非如此：五年前的数据仍然会存在，以原始编码形式保存，除非您自那时起明确地重写了它。这一观察有时被总结为数据的生命周期超过代码。

Rewriting (migrating) data into a new schema is certainly possible, but it’s an expensive thing to do on a large dataset, so most databases avoid it if possible. Most relational databases allow simple schema changes, such as adding a new column with a null default value, without rewriting existing data. When an old row is read, the database fills in nulls for any columns that are missing from the encoded data on disk. Schema evolution thus allows the entire database to appear as if it was encoded with a single schema, even though the underlying storage may contain records encoded with various historical versions of the schema.
将数据重写（迁移）到新模式当然是可能的，但在大型数据集上进行这项操作是非常昂贵的，因此大多数数据库会尽量避免这样做。大多数关系数据库允许简单的模式更改，例如添加一个默认值为 null 的新列，而无需重写现有数据。当读取旧行时，数据库会为任何在磁盘上编码数据中缺失的列填充 null 。因此，模式演变使整个数据库看起来像是用单一模式编码的，即使底层存储可能包含用各种历史版本的模式编码的记录。

More complex schema changes—for example, changing a single-valued attribute to be multi-valued, or moving some data into a separate table—still require data to be rewritten, often at the application level [27]. Maintaining forward and backward compatibility across such migrations is still a research problem [28].
更复杂的模式更改——例如，将单值属性更改为多值，或将某些数据移动到单独的表——仍然需要重写数据，通常是在应用程序层面进行的 [27]。在这种迁移中维护向前和向后兼容性仍然是一个研究问题 [28]。

Archival storage
归档存储

Perhaps you take a snapshot of your database from time to time, say for backup purposes or for loading into a data warehouse (see “Data Warehousing”). In this case, the data dump will typically be encoded using the latest schema, even if the original encoding in the source database contained a mixture of schema versions from different eras. Since you’re copying the data anyway, you might as well encode the copy of the data consistently.
也许你会不时对数据库进行快照，比如出于备份目的或加载到数据仓库（参见“数据仓库”）。在这种情况下，数据转储通常会使用最新的模式进行编码，即使源数据库中的原始编码包含来自不同时代的模式版本的混合。既然你反正要复制数据，不如将数据的副本一致地编码。

As the data dump is written in one go and is thereafter immutable, formats like Avro object container files are a good fit. This is also a good opportunity to encode the data in an analytics-friendly column-oriented format such as Parquet (see “Column Compression”).
由于数据转储是一口气写入的，并且此后不可更改，因此像 Avro 对象容器文件这样的格式非常合适。这也是一个很好的机会，可以将数据编码为分析友好的列式格式，例如 Parquet（参见“列压缩”）。

In [Link to Come] we will talk more about using data in archival storage.
在[链接即将到来]中，我们将更多地讨论在归档存储中使用数据。

Dataflow Through Services: REST and RPC
通过服务的数据流：REST 和 RPC

When you have processes that need to communicate over a network, there are a few different ways of arranging that communication. The most common arrangement is to have two roles: clients and servers. The servers expose an API over the network, and the clients can connect to the servers to make requests to that API. The API exposed by the server is known as a service.
当你有需要通过网络进行通信的进程时，有几种不同的方式来安排这种通信。最常见的安排是有两个角色：客户端和服务器。服务器通过网络暴露一个 API，客户端可以连接到服务器以向该 API 发出请求。服务器暴露的 API 被称为服务。

The web works this way: clients (web browsers) make requests to web servers, making GET requests to download HTML, CSS, JavaScript, images, etc., and making POST requests to submit data to the server. The API consists of a standardized set of protocols and data formats (HTTP, URLs, SSL/TLS, HTML, etc.). Because web browsers, web servers, and website authors mostly agree on these standards, you can use any web browser to access any website (at least in theory!).
网络就是这样运作的：客户端（网页浏览器）向网页服务器发出请求，发出 GET 请求以下载 HTML、CSS、JavaScript、图像等，并发出 POST 请求以向服务器提交数据。API 由一组标准化的协议和数据格式（HTTP、URLs、SSL/TLS、HTML 等）组成。由于网页浏览器、网页服务器和网站作者大多同意这些标准，因此你可以使用任何网页浏览器访问任何网站（至少在理论上是这样！）。

Web browsers are not the only type of client. For example, native apps running on mobile devices and desktop computers often talk to servers, and client-side JavaScript applications running inside web browsers can also make HTTP requests. In this case, the server’s response is typically not HTML for displaying to a human, but rather data in an encoding that is convenient for further processing by the client-side application code (most often JSON). Although HTTP may be used as the transport protocol, the API implemented on top is application-specific, and the client and server need to agree on the details of that API.
Web 浏览器并不是唯一的客户端类型。例如，运行在移动设备和桌面计算机上的原生应用程序通常与服务器进行通信，而在 Web 浏览器中运行的客户端 JavaScript 应用程序也可以发出 HTTP 请求。在这种情况下，服务器的响应通常不是用于人类显示的 HTML，而是以便于客户端应用程序代码进一步处理的编码格式的数据（通常是 JSON）。尽管 HTTP 可以用作传输协议，但其上实现的 API 是特定于应用程序的，客户端和服务器需要就该 API 的细节达成一致。

In some ways, services are similar to databases: they typically allow clients to submit and query data. However, while databases allow arbitrary queries using the query languages we discussed in Chapter 3, services expose an application-specific API that only allows inputs and outputs that are predetermined by the business logic (application code) of the service [29]. This restriction provides a degree of encapsulation: services can impose fine-grained restrictions on what clients can and cannot do.
在某些方面，服务与数据库相似：它们通常允许客户端提交和查询数据。然而，虽然数据库允许使用我们在第 3 章中讨论的查询语言进行任意查询，服务则暴露出一个特定于应用程序的 API，只允许由服务的业务逻辑（应用程序代码）预先确定的输入和输出[29]。这种限制提供了一定程度的封装：服务可以对客户端可以做和不能做的事情施加细粒度的限制。

A key design goal of a service-oriented/microservices architecture is to make the application easier to change and maintain by making services independently deployable and evolvable. A common principle is that each service should be owned by one team, and that team should be able to release new versions of the service frequently, without having to coordinate with other teams. We should therefore expect old and new versions of servers and clients to be running at the same time, and so the data encoding used by servers and clients must be compatible across versions of the service API.
服务导向/微服务架构的一个关键设计目标是通过使服务能够独立部署和演进，从而使应用程序更易于更改和维护。一个常见的原则是，每个服务应由一个团队负责，该团队应能够频繁发布服务的新版本，而无需与其他团队协调。因此，我们应该预期旧版本和新版本的服务器和客户端会同时运行，因此服务器和客户端使用的数据编码必须在服务 API 的不同版本之间兼容。

Web services
Web 服务

When HTTP is used as the underlying protocol for talking to the service, it is called a web service. Web services are commonly used when building a service oriented or microservices architecture (discussed earlier in “Microservices and Serverless”). The term “web service” is perhaps a slight misnomer, because web services are not only used on the web, but in several different contexts. For example:
当 HTTP 被用作与服务通信的底层协议时，它被称为 Web 服务。在构建服务导向或微服务架构时（在“微服务和无服务器”中讨论过），Web 服务被广泛使用。“Web 服务”这个术语或许有些不准确，因为 Web 服务不仅在网络上使用，还在多个不同的上下文中使用。例如：

A client application running on a user’s device (e.g., a native app on a mobile device, or a JavaScript web app in a browser) making requests to a service over HTTP. These requests typically go over the public internet.
在用户设备上运行的客户端应用程序（例如，移动设备上的原生应用或浏览器中的 JavaScript 网页应用）通过 HTTP 向服务发出请求。这些请求通常通过公共互联网进行。

One service making requests to another service owned by the same organization, often located within the same datacenter, as part of a service-oriented/microservices architecture.
一个服务向同一组织拥有的另一个服务发出请求，通常位于同一数据中心，作为面向服务/微服务架构的一部分。

One service making requests to a service owned by a different organization, usually via the internet. This is used for data exchange between different organizations’ backend systems. This category includes public APIs provided by online services, such as credit card processing systems, or OAuth for shared access to user data.
一个服务向不同组织拥有的服务发出请求，通常通过互联网。这用于不同组织的后端系统之间的数据交换。此类别包括在线服务提供的公共 API，例如信用卡处理系统或用于共享用户数据访问的 OAuth。

The most popular service design philosophy is REST, which builds upon the principles of HTTP [30, 31]. It emphasizes simple data formats, using URLs for identifying resources and using HTTP features for cache control, authentication, and content type negotiation. An API designed according to the principles of REST is called RESTful.
最流行的服务设计理念是 REST，它建立在 HTTP 的原则之上[30, 31]。它强调简单的数据格式，使用 URL 来标识资源，并利用 HTTP 特性进行缓存控制、身份验证和内容类型协商。根据 REST 原则设计的 API 称为 RESTful。

Code that needs to invoke a web service API must know which HTTP endpoint to query, and what data format to send and expect in response. Even if a service adopts RESTful design principles, clients need to somehow find out these details. Service developers often use an interface definition language (IDL) to define and document their service’s API endpoints and data models, and to evolve them over time. Other developers can then use the service definition to determine how to query the service. The two most popular service IDLs are OpenAPI (also known as Swagger [32]) and gRPC. OpenAPI is used for web services that send and receive JSON data, while gRPC services send and receive Protocol Buffers.
需要调用 Web 服务 API 的代码必须知道要查询哪个 HTTP 端点，以及要发送和期望的响应数据格式。即使服务采用 RESTful 设计原则，客户端仍然需要以某种方式找出这些细节。服务开发人员通常使用接口定义语言（IDL）来定义和记录其服务的 API 端点和数据模型，并随着时间的推移对其进行演变。其他开发人员可以使用服务定义来确定如何查询该服务。最流行的两种服务 IDL 是 OpenAPI（也称为 Swagger [32]）和 gRPC。OpenAPI 用于发送和接收 JSON 数据的 Web 服务，而 gRPC 服务则发送和接收协议缓冲区。

Developers typically write OpenAPI service definitions in JSON or YAML; see Example 5-3. The service definition allows developers to define service endpoints, documentation, versions, data models, and much more. gRPC definitions look similar, but are defined using Protocol Buffers service definitions.
开发人员通常以 JSON 或 YAML 编写 OpenAPI 服务定义；见示例 5-3。服务定义允许开发人员定义服务端点、文档、版本、数据模型等更多内容。gRPC 定义看起来类似，但使用协议缓冲区服务定义进行定义。

Example 5-3. Example OpenAPI service definition in YAML
示例 5-3. 示例 OpenAPI 服务定义（YAML 格式）

openapi: 3.0.0
info:
title: Ping, Pong
version: 1.0.0
servers:

- url: http://localhost:8080
  paths:
  /ping:
  get:
  summary: Given a ping, returns a pong message
  responses:
  '200':
  description: A pong
  content:
  application/json:
  schema:
  type: object
  properties:
  message:
  type: string
  example: Pong!
  Even if a design philosophy and IDL are adopted, developers must still write the code that implements their service’s API calls. A service framework is often adopted to simplify this effort. Service frameworks such as Spring Boot, FastAPI, and gRPC allow developers to write the business logic for each API endpoint while the framework code handles routing, metrics, caching, authentication, and so on. Example 5-4 shows an example Python implementation of the service defined in Example 5-3.
  即使采用了设计理念和 IDL，开发者仍然必须编写实现其服务 API 调用的代码。通常会采用服务框架来简化这一工作。像 Spring Boot、FastAPI 和 gRPC 这样的服务框架允许开发者为每个 API 端点编写业务逻辑，而框架代码则处理路由、指标、缓存、身份验证等。示例 5-4 展示了在示例 5-3 中定义的服务的 Python 实现示例。

Example 5-4. Example FastAPI service implementing the definition from Example 5-3
示例 5-4. 实现示例 5-3 中定义的 FastAPI 服务示例

from fastapi import FastAPI
from pydantic import BaseModel

app = FastAPI(title="Ping, Pong", version="1.0.0")

class PongResponse(BaseModel):
message: str = "Pong!"

@app.get("/ping", response_model=PongResponse,
summary="Given a ping, returns a pong message")
async def ping():
return PongResponse()
Many frameworks couple service definitions and server code together. In some cases, such as with the popular Python FastAPI framework, servers are written in code and an IDL is generated automatically. In other cases, such as with gRPC, the service definition is written first, and server code scaffolding is generated. Both approaches allow developers to generate client libraries and SDKs in a variety of languages from the service definition. In addition to code generation, IDL tools such as Swagger’s can generate documentation, verify schema change compatibility, and provide a graphical user interfaces for developers to query and test services.
许多框架将服务定义和服务器代码结合在一起。在某些情况下，例如流行的 Python FastAPI 框架，服务器是用代码编写的，并且 IDL 是自动生成的。在其他情况下，例如 gRPC，服务定义是首先编写的，然后生成服务器代码的脚手架。这两种方法都允许开发人员从服务定义生成多种语言的客户端库和 SDK。除了代码生成，IDL 工具如 Swagger 还可以生成文档，验证模式变更的兼容性，并为开发人员提供图形用户界面以查询和测试服务。

The problems with remote procedure calls (RPCs)
远程过程调用（RPC）的问题

Web services are merely the latest incarnation of a long line of technologies for making API requests over a network, many of which received a lot of hype but have serious problems. Enterprise JavaBeans (EJB) and Java’s Remote Method Invocation (RMI) are limited to Java. The Distributed Component Object Model (DCOM) is limited to Microsoft platforms. The Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) is excessively complex, and does not provide backward or forward compatibility [33]. SOAP and the WS-_ web services framework aim to provide interoperability across vendors, but are also plagued by complexity and compatibility problems [34, 35, 36].
Web 服务只是通过网络发出 API 请求的一系列技术中的最新体现，其中许多技术曾受到过高度关注，但存在严重问题。企业 JavaBeans（EJB）和 Java 的远程方法调用（RMI）仅限于 Java。分布式组件对象模型（DCOM）仅限于微软平台。通用对象请求代理架构（CORBA）过于复杂，并且不提供向后或向前兼容性[ 33]。SOAP 和 WS-_ Web 服务框架旨在提供跨供应商的互操作性，但也受到复杂性和兼容性问题的困扰[ 34, 35, 36]。

All of these are based on the idea of a remote procedure call (RPC), which has been around since the 1970s [37]. The RPC model tries to make a request to a remote network service look the same as calling a function or method in your programming language, within the same process (this abstraction is called location transparency). Although RPC seems convenient at first, the approach is fundamentally flawed [38, 39]. A network request is very different from a local function call:
所有这些都基于远程过程调用（RPC）的概念，该概念自 1970 年代以来就存在[ 37]。RPC 模型试图使对远程网络服务的请求看起来与在同一进程中调用编程语言中的函数或方法相同（这种抽象称为位置透明性）。尽管 RPC 乍看之下似乎很方便，但这种方法在根本上是有缺陷的[ 38, 39]。网络请求与本地函数调用有很大不同：

A local function call is predictable and either succeeds or fails, depending only on parameters that are under your control. A network request is unpredictable: the request or response may be lost due to a network problem, or the remote machine may be slow or unavailable, and such problems are entirely outside of your control. Network problems are common, so you have to anticipate them, for example by retrying a failed request.
本地函数调用是可预测的，成功或失败仅取决于您控制的参数。网络请求则不可预测：请求或响应可能因网络问题而丢失，或者远程机器可能响应缓慢或不可用，这些问题完全超出您的控制范围。网络问题很常见，因此您必须预见这些问题，例如通过重试失败的请求。

A local function call either returns a result, or throws an exception, or never returns (because it goes into an infinite loop or the process crashes). A network request has another possible outcome: it may return without a result, due to a timeout. In that case, you simply don’t know what happened: if you don’t get a response from the remote service, you have no way of knowing whether the request got through or not. (We discuss this issue in more detail in [Link to Come].)
本地函数调用要么返回结果，要么抛出异常，要么永不返回（因为进入无限循环或进程崩溃）。网络请求还有另一种可能的结果：由于超时，它可能返回但没有结果。在这种情况下，您根本不知道发生了什么：如果您没有收到远程服务的响应，就无法知道请求是否成功发送。（我们将在[链接即将到来]中更详细地讨论这个问题。）

If you retry a failed network request, it could happen that the previous request actually got through, and only the response was lost. In that case, retrying will cause the action to be performed multiple times, unless you build a mechanism for deduplication (idempotence) into the protocol [40]. Local function calls don’t have this problem. (We discuss idempotence in more detail in [Link to Come].)
如果你重试一个失败的网络请求，可能会发生之前的请求实际上已经成功，只是响应丢失了。在这种情况下，重试将导致该操作被多次执行，除非你在协议中构建一个去重（幂等性）机制 [ 40]。本地函数调用没有这个问题。（我们将在[链接待更新]中更详细地讨论幂等性。）

Every time you call a local function, it normally takes about the same time to execute. A network request is much slower than a function call, and its latency is also wildly variable: at good times it may complete in less than a millisecond, but when the network is congested or the remote service is overloaded it may take many seconds to do exactly the same thing.
每次调用本地函数时，执行所需的时间通常大致相同。网络请求比函数调用慢得多，并且其延迟也变化很大：在良好的情况下，它可能在不到一毫秒的时间内完成，但当网络拥堵或远程服务过载时，完成完全相同的操作可能需要几秒钟。

When you call a local function, you can efficiently pass it references (pointers) to objects in local memory. When you make a network request, all those parameters need to be encoded into a sequence of bytes that can be sent over the network. That’s okay if the parameters are immutable primitives like numbers or short strings, but it quickly becomes problematic with larger amounts of data and mutable objects.
当你调用本地函数时，可以高效地将本地内存中对象的引用（指针）传递给它。当你发起网络请求时，所有这些参数需要被编码成可以通过网络发送的字节序列。如果参数是不可变的基本类型，比如数字或短字符串，这没问题，但当数据量较大或对象可变时，这很快就会变得复杂。

The client and the service may be implemented in different programming languages, so the RPC framework must translate datatypes from one language into another. This can end up ugly, since not all languages have the same types—recall JavaScript’s problems with numbers greater than 253, for example (see “JSON, XML, and Binary Variants”). This problem doesn’t exist in a single process written in a single language.
客户端和服务端可能使用不同的编程语言实现，因此 RPC 框架必须将数据类型从一种语言转换为另一种。这可能会变得很复杂，因为并不是所有语言都有相同的类型——例如，回想一下 JavaScript 在处理大于 2 53 的数字时遇到的问题（参见“JSON、XML 和二进制变体”）。在单一语言编写的单一进程中，这个问题是不存在的。

All of these factors mean that there’s no point trying to make a remote service look too much like a local object in your programming language, because it’s a fundamentally different thing. Part of the appeal of REST is that it treats state transfer over a network as a process that is distinct from a function call.
所有这些因素意味着，试图让远程服务看起来过于像你编程语言中的本地对象是没有意义的，因为它本质上是不同的事物。REST 的一个吸引力在于，它将通过网络的状态转移视为一个与函数调用不同的过程。

Load balancers, service discovery, and service meshes
负载均衡器、服务发现和服务网格

All services communicate over the network. For this reason, a client must know the address of the service it’s connecting to—a problem known as service discovery. The simplest approach is to configure a client to connect to the IP address and port where the service is running. This configuration will work, but if the server goes offline, is transferred to a new machine, or becomes overloaded, the client has to be manually reconfigured.
所有服务通过网络进行通信。因此，客户端必须知道它所连接的服务的地址——这个问题被称为服务发现。最简单的方法是配置客户端以连接到服务运行的 IP 地址和端口。这个配置是可行的，但如果服务器下线、转移到新机器或过载，客户端就必须手动重新配置。

To provide higher availability and scalability, there are usually multiple instances of a service running on different machines, any of which can handle an incoming request. Spreading requests across these instances is called load balancing [41]. There are many load balancing and service discovery solutions available:
为了提供更高的可用性和可扩展性，通常会在不同的机器上运行多个服务实例，任何一个实例都可以处理传入的请求。将请求分散到这些实例上称为负载均衡 [ 41]。有许多负载均衡和服务发现解决方案可供选择：

Hardware load balancers are specialized pieces of equipment that are installed in data centers. They allow clients to connect to a single host and port, and incoming connections are routed to one of the servers running the service. Such load balancers detect network failures when connecting to a downstream server and shift the traffic to other servers.
硬件负载均衡器是安装在数据中心的专用设备。它们允许客户端连接到单个主机和端口，传入的连接会被路由到运行服务的服务器之一。这种负载均衡器在连接到下游服务器时会检测网络故障，并将流量转移到其他服务器。

Software load balancers behave in much the same way as hardware load balancers. But rather than requiring a special appliance, software load balancers such as Nginx and HAProxy are applications that can be installed on a standard machine.
软件负载均衡器的行为与硬件负载均衡器非常相似。但与需要专用设备不同，软件负载均衡器如 Nginx 和 HAProxy 是可以安装在标准机器上的应用程序。

The domain name service (DNS) is how domain names are resolved on the Internet when you open a webpage. It supports load balancing by allowing multiple IP addresses to be associated with a single domain name. Clients can then be configured to connect to a service using a domain name rather than IP address, and the client’s network layer picks which IP address to use when making a connection. One drawback of this approach is that DNS is designed to propagate changes over longer periods of time, and to cache DNS entries. If servers are started, stopped, or moved frequently, clients might see stale IP addresses that no longer have a server running on them.
域名服务（DNS）是当您打开网页时如何在互联网上解析域名的。它通过允许多个 IP 地址与单个域名关联来支持负载均衡。然后，可以配置客户端使用域名而不是 IP 地址连接到服务，客户端的网络层在建立连接时选择使用哪个 IP 地址。这种方法的一个缺点是，DNS 设计用于在较长时间内传播更改，并缓存 DNS 条目。如果服务器频繁启动、停止或移动，客户端可能会看到不再有服务器在其上运行的过时 IP 地址。

Service discovery systems use a centralized registry rather than DNS to track which service endpoints are available. When a new service instance starts up, it registers itself with the service discovery system by declaring the host and port it’s listening on, along with relevant metadata such as shard ownership information (see Chapter 7), data center location, and more. The service then periodically sends a heartbeat signal to the discovery system to signal that the service is still available.
服务发现系统使用集中式注册表而不是 DNS 来跟踪可用的服务端点。当一个新的服务实例启动时，它通过声明其监听的主机和端口以及相关的元数据（如分片所有权信息（见第 7 章）、数据中心位置等）向服务发现系统注册。然后，该服务定期向发现系统发送心跳信号，以表明该服务仍然可用。

When a client wishes to connect to a service, it first queries the discovery system to get a list of available endpoints, and then connects directly to the endpoint. Compared to DNS, service discovery supports a much more dynamic environment where service instances change frequently. Discovery systems also give clients more metadata about the service they’re connecting to, which enables clients to make smarter load balancing decisions.
当客户端希望连接到服务时，它首先查询发现系统以获取可用端点的列表，然后直接连接到该端点。与 DNS 相比，服务发现支持一个更加动态的环境，其中服务实例频繁变化。发现系统还为客户端提供了更多关于它们所连接服务的元数据，这使得客户端能够做出更智能的负载均衡决策。

Service meshes are a sophisticated form of load balancing that combine software load balancers and service discovery. Unlike traditional software load balancers, which run on a separate machine, service mesh load balancers are typically deployed as an in-process client library or as a process or “sidecar” container on both the client and server. Client applications connect to their own local service load balancer, which connects to the server’s load balancer. From there, the connection is routed to the local server process.
服务网格是一种复杂的负载均衡形式，结合了软件负载均衡器和服务发现。与传统的软件负载均衡器不同，后者运行在单独的机器上，服务网格负载均衡器通常作为进程内客户端库或作为客户端和服务器上的“边车”容器进行部署。客户端应用程序连接到其本地服务负载均衡器，该负载均衡器再连接到服务器的负载均衡器。从那里，连接被路由到本地服务器进程。

Though complicated, this topology offers a number of advantages. Because the clients and servers are routed entirely through local connections, connection encryption can be handled entirely at the load balancer level. This shields clients and servers from having to deal with the complexities of SSL certificates and TLS. Mesh systems also provide sophisticated observability. They can track which services are calling each other in realtime, detect failures, track traffic load, and more.
尽管复杂，这种拓扑结构提供了许多优势。由于客户端和服务器完全通过本地连接进行路由，连接加密可以完全在负载均衡器级别处理。这使得客户端和服务器无需处理 SSL 证书和 TLS 的复杂性。网格系统还提供了复杂的可观察性。它们可以实时跟踪哪些服务相互调用，检测故障，跟踪流量负载等。

Which solution is appropriate depends on an organization’s needs. Those running in a very dynamic service environment with an orchestrator such as Kubernetes often choose to run a service mesh such as Istio or Linkerd. Specialized infrastructure such as databases or messaging systems might require their own purpose-built load balancer. Simpler deployments are best served with software load balancers.
适合的解决方案取决于组织的需求。在一个非常动态的服务环境中，使用像 Kubernetes 这样的调度器的组织通常选择运行像 Istio 或 Linkerd 这样的服务网格。专用基础设施，如数据库或消息系统，可能需要其专门构建的负载均衡器。对于更简单的部署，软件负载均衡器是最佳选择。

Data encoding and evolution for RPC
RPC 的数据编码和演变

For evolvability, it is important that RPC clients and servers can be changed and deployed independently. Compared to data flowing through databases (as described in the last section), we can make a simplifying assumption in the case of dataflow through services: it is reasonable to assume that all the servers will be updated first, and all the clients second. Thus, you only need backward compatibility on requests, and forward compatibility on responses.
为了可演变性，RPC 客户端和服务器能够独立更改和部署是很重要的。与通过数据库流动的数据（如上一节所述）相比，在服务之间的数据流动的情况下，我们可以做一个简化的假设：合理假设所有服务器会首先更新，所有客户端会其次更新。因此，您只需要在请求上保持向后兼容性，在响应上保持向前兼容性。

The backward and forward compatibility properties of an RPC scheme are inherited from whatever encoding it uses:
RPC 方案的向后和向前兼容性属性是继承自其使用的任何编码：

gRPC (Protocol Buffers) and Avro RPC can be evolved according to the compatibility rules of the respective encoding format.
gRPC（协议缓冲区）和 Avro RPC 可以根据各自编码格式的兼容性规则进行演变。

RESTful APIs most commonly use JSON for responses, and JSON or URI-encoded/form-encoded request parameters for requests. Adding optional request parameters and adding new fields to response objects are usually considered changes that maintain compatibility.
RESTful API 最常使用 JSON 作为响应格式，而请求参数则使用 JSON 或 URI 编码/表单编码。添加可选请求参数和向响应对象添加新字段通常被视为保持兼容性的更改。

Service compatibility is made harder by the fact that RPC is often used for communication across organizational boundaries, so the provider of a service often has no control over its clients and cannot force them to upgrade. Thus, compatibility needs to be maintained for a long time, perhaps indefinitely. If a compatibility-breaking change is required, the service provider often ends up maintaining multiple versions of the service API side by side.
服务兼容性变得更加困难，因为 RPC 通常用于跨组织边界的通信，因此服务提供者往往无法控制其客户端，也无法强迫他们升级。因此，兼容性需要长期保持，甚至可能是无限期的。如果需要进行破坏兼容性的更改，服务提供者通常最终会并行维护多个版本的服务 API。

There is no agreement on how API versioning should work (i.e., how a client can indicate which version of the API it wants to use [42]). For RESTful APIs, common approaches are to use a version number in the URL or in the HTTP Accept header. For services that use API keys to identify a particular client, another option is to store a client’s requested API version on the server and to allow this version selection to be updated through a separate administrative interface [43].
关于 API 版本控制的工作方式没有达成一致意见（即，客户端如何指示其希望使用的 API 版本 [42]）。对于 RESTful API，常见的方法是在 URL 中或在 HTTP Accept 头中使用版本号。对于使用 API 密钥来识别特定客户端的服务，另一种选择是在服务器上存储客户端请求的 API 版本，并允许通过单独的管理界面更新此版本选择 [43]。

Durable Execution and Workflows
持久执行和工作流

By definition, service-based architectures have multiple services that are all responsible for different portions of an application. Consider a payment processing application that charges a credit card and deposits the funds into a bank account. This system would likely have different services responsible for fraud detection, credit card integration, bank integration, and so on.
根据定义，基于服务的架构有多个服务，这些服务负责应用程序的不同部分。考虑一个支付处理应用程序，它会对信用卡收费并将资金存入银行账户。该系统可能会有不同的服务负责欺诈检测、信用卡集成、银行集成等。

Processing a single payment in our example requires many service calls. A payment processor service might invoke the fraud detection service to check for fraud, call the credit card service to debit the credit card, and call the banking service to deposit debited funds, as shown in Figure 5-7. We call this sequence of steps a workflow, and each step a task. Workflows are typically defined as a graph of tasks. Workflow definitions may be written in a general-purpose programming language, a domain specific language (DSL), or a markup language such as Business Process Execution Language (BPEL) [44].
在我们的示例中，处理单个支付需要多个服务调用。支付处理服务可能会调用欺诈检测服务以检查欺诈，调用信用卡服务以扣款，并调用银行服务以存入扣款资金，如图 5-7 所示。我们将这一系列步骤称为工作流，每个步骤称为任务。工作流通常被定义为任务的图。工作流定义可以用通用编程语言、领域特定语言（DSL）或标记语言（如业务流程执行语言 BPEL）编写[44]。

Tasks, Activities, and Functions
任务、活动和函数

Different workflow engines use different names for tasks. Temporal, for example, uses the term activity. Others refer to tasks as durable functions. Though the names differ, the concepts are the same.
不同的工作流引擎对任务使用不同的名称。例如，Temporal 使用活动这个术语。其他一些则将任务称为持久函数。尽管名称不同，但概念是相同的。

ddia 0507
Figure 5-7. Example of a workflow expressed using Business Process Model and Notation (BPMN), a graphical notation.
图 5-7. 使用业务流程模型和标记法（BPMN）表示的工作流示例，这是一种图形标记法。

Workflows are run, or executed, by a workflow engine. Workflow engines determine when to run each task, on which machine a task must be run, what to do if a task fails (e.g., if the machine crashes while the task is running), how many tasks are allowed to execute in parallel, and more.
工作流由工作流引擎运行或执行。工作流引擎决定何时运行每个任务、任务必须在何种机器上运行、如果任务失败（例如，如果机器在任务运行时崩溃）该怎么办、允许并行执行多少任务等。

Workflow engines are typically composed of an orchestrator and an executor. The orchestrator is responsible for scheduling tasks to be executed and the executor is responsible for executing tasks. Execution begins when a workflow is triggered. The orchestrator triggers the workflow itself if users define a time-based schedule, such as hourly execution. External sources such as a web service or even a human can also trigger workflow executions. Once triggered, executors are invoked to run tasks.
工作流引擎通常由调度器和执行器组成。调度器负责安排要执行的任务，而执行器负责执行任务。当工作流被触发时，执行开始。如果用户定义了基于时间的调度，例如每小时执行，调度器会触发工作流本身。外部来源，如网络服务甚至人类，也可以触发工作流执行。一旦被触发，执行器就会被调用来运行任务。

There are many kinds of workflow engines that address a diverse set of use cases. Some, such as Airflow, Dagster, and Prefect, integrate with data systems and orchestrate ETL tasks. Others, such as Camunda and Orkes, provide a graphical notation for workflows (such as BPMN, used in Figure 5-7) so that non-engineers can more easily define and execute workflows. Still others, such as Temporal and Restate provide durable execution.
有许多种工作流引擎可以满足多样化的用例。一些引擎，如 Airflow、Dagster 和 Prefect，与数据系统集成并协调 ETL 任务。其他引擎，如 Camunda 和 Orkes，提供工作流的图形表示法（如图 5-7 中使用的 BPMN），使非工程师能够更轻松地定义和执行工作流。还有一些引擎，如 Temporal 和 Restate，提供持久化执行。

Durable execution
持久执行

Durable execution frameworks have become a popular way to build service-based architectures that require transactionality. In our payment example, we would like to process each payment exactly once. A failure while the workflow is executing could result in a credit card charge, but no corresponding bank account deposit. In a service-based architecture, we can’t simply wrap the two tasks in a database transaction. Moreover, we might be interacting with third-party payment gateways that we have limited control over.
持久化执行框架已成为构建需要事务性的基于服务的架构的流行方式。在我们的支付示例中，我们希望每笔支付只处理一次。在工作流执行过程中发生的故障可能导致信用卡被扣款，但没有相应的银行账户存款。在基于服务的架构中，我们不能简单地将这两个任务包装在数据库事务中。此外，我们可能还在与我们控制有限的第三方支付网关进行交互。

Durable execution frameworks are a way to provide exactly-once semantics for workflows. If a task fails, the framework will re-execute the task, but will skip any RPC calls or state changes that the task made successfully before failing. Instead, the framework will pretend to make the call, but will instead return the results from the previous call. This is possible because durable execution frameworks log all RPCs and state changes to durable storage like a write-ahead log [45, 46]. Example 5-5 shows an example of a workflow definition that supports durable execution using Temporal.
持久执行框架是一种为工作流提供精确一次语义的方法。如果一个任务失败，框架将重新执行该任务，但会跳过任务在失败之前成功完成的任何 RPC 调用或状态更改。相反，框架将假装进行调用，但实际上会返回先前调用的结果。这是可能的，因为持久执行框架将所有 RPC 和状态更改记录到持久存储中，例如预写日志 [ 45, 46]。示例 5-5 展示了一个支持持久执行的工作流定义示例，使用 Temporal。

Example 5-5. A Temporal workflow definition fragment for the payment workflow in Figure 5-7.
示例 5-5. 图 5-7 中支付工作流的 Temporal 工作流定义片段。

@workflow.defn
class PaymentWorkflow:
@workflow.run
async def run(self, payment: PaymentRequest) -> PaymentResult:
is_fraud = await workflow.execute_activity(
check_fraud,
payment,
start_to_close_timeout=timedelta(seconds=15),
)
if is_fraud:
return PaymentResultFraudulent
credit_card_response = await workflow.execute_activity(
debit_credit_card,
payment,
start_to_close_timeout=timedelta(seconds=15),
) # ...
Frameworks like Temporal are not without their challenges. External services, such as the third-party payment gateway in our example, must still provide an idempotent API. Developers must remember to use unique IDs for these APIs to prevent duplicate execution [47]. And because durable execution frameworks log each RPC call in order, it expects a subsequent execution to make the same RPC calls in the same order. This makes code changes brittle. You might introduce undefined behavior simply by re-ordering function calls [48].
像 Temporal 这样的框架并非没有挑战。外部服务，例如我们示例中的第三方支付网关，仍然必须提供幂等 API。开发者必须记得为这些 API 使用唯一的 ID，以防止重复执行[47]。由于持久执行框架按顺序记录每个 RPC 调用，它期望后续执行以相同的顺序进行相同的 RPC 调用。这使得代码更容易出错。仅仅通过重新排列函数调用，您可能就会引入未定义的行为[48]。

Similarly, because durable execution frameworks expect to replay all code deterministically (the same inputs produce the same outputs), nondeterministic code such as random number generators or system clocks are problematic [48]. Frameworks often provide their own, deterministic implementations of such library functions, but you have to remember to use them. In some cases, such as with Temporal’s workflowcheck tool, frameworks provide static analysis tools to determine if nondeterministic behavior has been introduced.
同样，由于持久执行框架期望以确定性重放所有代码（相同的输入产生相同的输出），因此随机数生成器或系统时钟等非确定性代码是有问题的[48]。框架通常提供自己的确定性实现的库函数，但您必须记得使用它们。在某些情况下，例如 Temporal 的 workflowcheck 工具，框架提供静态分析工具以确定是否引入了非确定性行为。

Note
注意

Making code deterministic is a powerful idea, but tricky to do robustly. In [Link to Come] we will return to this topic.
使代码具有确定性是一个强大的想法，但要稳健地实现却很棘手。在[链接即将到来]中，我们将回到这个主题。

Event-Driven Architectures
事件驱动架构

In this final section, we will briefly look at event-driven architectures, which are another way how encoded data can flow from one process to another. A request is called an event or message; unlike RPC, the sender usually does not wait for the recipient to process the event. Moreover, events are typically not sent to the recipient via a direct network connection, but go via an intermediary called a message broker (also called an event broker, message queue, or message-oriented middleware), which stores the message temporarily. [49].
在最后这一部分，我们将简要探讨事件驱动架构，这是一种编码数据从一个过程流向另一个过程的方式。请求被称为事件或消息；与 RPC 不同，发送方通常不等待接收方处理事件。此外，事件通常不是通过直接的网络连接发送给接收方，而是通过一个称为消息代理的中介（也称为事件代理、消息队列或面向消息的中间件）进行传递，该中介暂时存储消息。[49].

Using a message broker has several advantages compared to direct RPC:
与直接 RPC 相比，使用消息代理有几个优点：

It can act as a buffer if the recipient is unavailable or overloaded, and thus improve system reliability.
如果接收方不可用或过载，它可以充当缓冲区，从而提高系统的可靠性。

It can automatically redeliver messages to a process that has crashed, and thus prevent messages from being lost.
它可以自动将消息重新发送到崩溃的进程，从而防止消息丢失。

It avoids the need for service discovery, since senders do not need to directly connect to the IP address of the recipient.
它避免了服务发现的需求，因为发送者不需要直接连接到接收者的 IP 地址。

It allows the same message to be sent to several recipients.
它允许将相同的消息发送给多个接收者。

It logically decouples the sender from the recipient (the sender just publishes messages and doesn’t care who consumes them).
它在逻辑上将发送者与接收者解耦（发送者只需发布消息，而不关心谁来消费这些消息）。

The communication via a message broker is asynchronous: the sender doesn’t wait for the message to be delivered, but simply sends it and then forgets about it. It’s possible to implement a synchronous RPC-like model by having the sender wait for a response on a separate channel.
通过消息代理的通信是异步的：发送者不等待消息被送达，而是简单地发送消息然后忘记它。可以通过让发送者在一个单独的通道上等待响应来实现类似同步 RPC 的模型。

Message brokers
消息代理

In the past, the landscape of message brokers was dominated by commercial enterprise software from companies such as TIBCO, IBM WebSphere, and webMethods, before open source implementations such as RabbitMQ, ActiveMQ, HornetQ, NATS, and Apache Kafka become popular. More recently, cloud services such as Amazon Kinesis, Azure Service Bus, and Google Cloud Pub/Sub have gained adoption. We will compare them in more detail in [Link to Come].
在过去，消息代理的领域主要由 TIBCO、IBM WebSphere 和 webMethods 等公司的商业企业软件主导，直到 RabbitMQ、ActiveMQ、HornetQ、NATS 和 Apache Kafka 等开源实现变得流行。最近，亚马逊 Kinesis、Azure 服务总线和谷歌云 Pub/Sub 等云服务也获得了广泛应用。我们将在[链接待发布]中更详细地比较它们。

The detailed delivery semantics vary by implementation and configuration, but in general, two message distribution patterns are most often used:
详细的交付语义因实现和配置而异，但一般来说，最常用的两种消息分发模式是：

One process adds a message to a named queue, and the broker delivers that message to a consumer of that queue. If there are multiple consumers, one of them receives the message.
一个进程将消息添加到一个命名队列中，代理将该消息传递给该队列的消费者。如果有多个消费者，其中一个将接收该消息。

One process publishes a message to a named topic, and the broker delivers that message to all subscribers of that topic. If there are multiple subscribers, they all receive the message.
一个进程将消息发布到一个命名主题中，代理将该消息传递给该主题的所有订阅者。如果有多个订阅者，他们都会接收到该消息。

Message brokers typically don’t enforce any particular data model—a message is just a sequence of bytes with some metadata, so you can use any encoding format. A common approach is to use Protocol Buffers, Avro, or JSON, and to deploy a schema registry alongside the message broker to store all the valid schema versions and check their compatibility [19, 21]. AsyncAPI, a messaging-based equivalent of OpenAPI, can also be used to specify the schema of messages.
消息代理通常不强制执行任何特定的数据模型——消息只是带有一些元数据的字节序列，因此您可以使用任何编码格式。一种常见的方法是使用 Protocol Buffers、Avro 或 JSON，并在消息代理旁边部署一个模式注册表，以存储所有有效的模式版本并检查它们的兼容性 [ 19, 21]。AsyncAPI，作为基于消息的 OpenAPI 等价物，也可以用于指定消息的模式。

Message brokers differ in terms of how durable their messages are. Many write messages to disk, so that they are not lost in case the message broker crashes or needs to be restarted. Unlike databases, many message brokers automatically delete messages again after they have been consumed. Some brokers can be configured to store messages indefinitely, which you would require if you want to use event sourcing (see “Event Sourcing and CQRS”).
消息代理在消息的持久性方面有所不同。许多消息代理将消息写入磁盘，以防在消息代理崩溃或需要重启时丢失消息。与数据库不同，许多消息代理在消息被消费后会自动删除这些消息。一些代理可以配置为无限期存储消息，如果您想使用事件溯源（参见“事件溯源和 CQRS”），这将是您所需要的。

If a consumer republishes messages to another topic, you may need to be careful to preserve unknown fields, to prevent the issue described previously in the context of databases (Figure 5-1).
如果消费者将消息重新发布到另一个主题，您可能需要小心保留未知字段，以防止在数据库上下文中描述的问题（图 5-1）。

Distributed actor frameworks
分布式演员框架

The actor model is a programming model for concurrency in a single process. Rather than dealing directly with threads (and the associated problems of race conditions, locking, and deadlock), logic is encapsulated in actors. Each actor typically represents one client or entity, it may have some local state (which is not shared with any other actor), and it communicates with other actors by sending and receiving asynchronous messages. Message delivery is not guaranteed: in certain error scenarios, messages will be lost. Since each actor processes only one message at a time, it doesn’t need to worry about threads, and each actor can be scheduled independently by the framework.
演员模型是一种用于单个进程中并发的编程模型。它不是直接处理线程（以及与竞争条件、锁定和死锁相关的问题），而是将逻辑封装在演员中。每个演员通常代表一个客户端或实体，它可能具有一些本地状态（该状态不与任何其他演员共享），并通过发送和接收异步消息与其他演员进行通信。消息传递并不保证：在某些错误场景中，消息可能会丢失。由于每个演员一次只处理一条消息，因此它不需要担心线程问题，并且每个演员可以由框架独立调度。

In distributed actor frameworks such as Akka, Orleans [50], and Erlang/OTP, this programming model is used to scale an application across multiple nodes. The same message-passing mechanism is used, no matter whether the sender and recipient are on the same node or different nodes. If they are on different nodes, the message is transparently encoded into a byte sequence, sent over the network, and decoded on the other side.
在分布式演员框架中，如 Akka、Orleans [50]和 Erlang/OTP，这种编程模型用于在多个节点之间扩展应用程序。无论发送者和接收者是在同一节点还是不同节点，都使用相同的消息传递机制。如果它们位于不同节点，则消息会被透明地编码为字节序列，通过网络发送，并在另一端解码。

Location transparency works better in the actor model than in RPC, because the actor model already assumes that messages may be lost, even within a single process. Although latency over the network is likely higher than within the same process, there is less of a fundamental mismatch between local and remote communication when using the actor model.
位置透明性在演员模型中比在 RPC 中更有效，因为演员模型已经假设消息可能会丢失，即使在单个进程内也是如此。尽管网络延迟可能高于同一进程内的延迟，但在使用演员模型时，本地和远程通信之间的根本不匹配较少。

A distributed actor framework essentially integrates a message broker and the actor programming model into a single framework. However, if you want to perform rolling upgrades of your actor-based application, you still have to worry about forward and backward compatibility, as messages may be sent from a node running the new version to a node running the old version, and vice versa. This can be achieved by using one of the encodings discussed in this chapter.
分布式演员框架本质上将消息代理和演员编程模型集成到一个单一框架中。然而，如果您想对基于演员的应用程序进行滚动升级，您仍然需要担心向前和向后兼容性，因为消息可能会从运行新版本的节点发送到运行旧版本的节点，反之亦然。这可以通过使用本章讨论的编码之一来实现。

Summary
总结

In this chapter we looked at several ways of turning data structures into bytes on the network or bytes on disk. We saw how the details of these encodings affect not only their efficiency, but more importantly also the architecture of applications and your options for evolving them.
在本章中，我们探讨了几种将数据结构转换为网络上的字节或磁盘上的字节的方法。我们看到这些编码的细节不仅影响它们的效率，更重要的是影响应用程序的架构以及您对其演变的选择。

In particular, many services need to support rolling upgrades, where a new version of a service is gradually deployed to a few nodes at a time, rather than deploying to all nodes simultaneously. Rolling upgrades allow new versions of a service to be released without downtime (thus encouraging frequent small releases over rare big releases) and make deployments less risky (allowing faulty releases to be detected and rolled back before they affect a large number of users). These properties are hugely beneficial for evolvability, the ease of making changes to an application.
特别是，许多服务需要支持滚动升级，即服务的新版本逐渐部署到少数节点，而不是同时部署到所有节点。滚动升级允许在没有停机时间的情况下发布服务的新版本（从而鼓励频繁的小版本发布而不是罕见的大版本发布），并使部署风险降低（允许在影响大量用户之前检测并回滚有缺陷的发布）。这些特性对可演化性非常有利，即对应用程序进行更改的便利性。

During rolling upgrades, or for various other reasons, we must assume that different nodes are running the different versions of our application’s code. Thus, it is important that all data flowing around the system is encoded in a way that provides backward compatibility (new code can read old data) and forward compatibility (old code can read new data).
在滚动升级期间，或出于其他各种原因，我们必须假设不同的节点正在运行我们应用程序代码的不同版本。因此，确保系统中流动的所有数据以提供向后兼容性（新代码可以读取旧数据）和向前兼容性（旧代码可以读取新数据）的方式进行编码是很重要的。

We discussed several data encoding formats and their compatibility properties:
我们讨论了几种数据编码格式及其兼容性特性：

Programming language–specific encodings are restricted to a single programming language and often fail to provide forward and backward compatibility.
特定于编程语言的编码限制在单一编程语言内，通常无法提供向前和向后兼容性。

Textual formats like JSON, XML, and CSV are widespread, and their compatibility depends on how you use them. They have optional schema languages, which are sometimes helpful and sometimes a hindrance. These formats are somewhat vague about datatypes, so you have to be careful with things like numbers and binary strings.
像 JSON、XML 和 CSV 这样的文本格式非常普遍，它们的兼容性取决于你如何使用它们。它们有可选的模式语言，有时有帮助，有时则是障碍。这些格式对数据类型的定义有些模糊，因此在处理数字和二进制字符串等内容时需要小心。

Binary schema–driven formats like Protocol Buffers and Avro allow compact, efficient encoding with clearly defined forward and backward compatibility semantics. The schemas can be useful for documentation and code generation in statically typed languages. However, these formats have the downside that data needs to be decoded before it is human-readable.
像 Protocol Buffers 和 Avro 这样的二进制模式驱动格式允许紧凑、高效的编码，并具有明确定义的向前和向后兼容性语义。这些模式在静态类型语言中对于文档和代码生成非常有用。然而，这些格式的缺点是数据在可读之前需要解码。

We also discussed several modes of dataflow, illustrating different scenarios in which data encodings are important:
我们还讨论了几种数据流模式，说明了数据编码重要的不同场景：

Databases, where the process writing to the database encodes the data and the process reading from the database decodes it
数据库，其中写入数据库的过程对数据进行编码，而从数据库读取的过程对其进行解码。

RPC and REST APIs, where the client encodes a request, the server decodes the request and encodes a response, and the client finally decodes the response
RPC 和 REST API，其中客户端编码请求，服务器解码请求并编码响应，最后客户端解码响应

Event-driven architectures (using message brokers or actors), where nodes communicate by sending each other messages that are encoded by the sender and decoded by the recipient
事件驱动架构（使用消息中间件或演员），节点通过发送彼此的消息进行通信，这些消息由发送方编码，由接收方解码

We can conclude that with a bit of care, backward/forward compatibility and rolling upgrades are quite achievable. May your application’s evolution be rapid and your deployments be frequent.
我们可以得出结论，只要稍加注意，向后/向前兼容性和滚动升级都是相当可行的。愿您的应用程序快速演进，部署频繁。

Footnotes
脚注

References
参考文献

[1] CWE-502: Deserialization of Untrusted Data. Common Weakness Enumeration, cwe.mitre.org, July 2006. Archived at perma.cc/26EU-UK9Y
[ 1] CWE-502: 不可信数据的反序列化。常见弱点枚举，cwe.mitre.org，2006 年 7 月。存档于 perma.cc/26EU-UK9Y

[2] Steve Breen. What Do WebLogic, WebSphere, JBoss, Jenkins, OpenNMS, and Your Application Have in Common? This Vulnerability. foxglovesecurity.com, November 2015. Archived at perma.cc/9U97-UVVD
[ 2] Steve Breen. WebLogic、WebSphere、JBoss、Jenkins、OpenNMS 和您的应用程序有什么共同点？这个漏洞。foxglovesecurity.com，2015 年 11 月。存档于 perma.cc/9U97-UVVD

[3] Patrick McKenzie. What the Rails Security Issue Means for Your Startup. kalzumeus.com, January 2013. Archived at perma.cc/2MBJ-7PZ6
[ 3] Patrick McKenzie. Rails 安全问题对您的初创企业意味着什么。kalzumeus.com，2013 年 1 月。存档于 perma.cc/2MBJ-7PZ6

[4] Brian Goetz. Towards Better Serialization. openjdk.org, June 2019. Archived at perma.cc/UK6U-GQDE
[ 4] Brian Goetz. 更好的序列化方法. openjdk.org, 2019 年 6 月. 存档于 perma.cc/UK6U-GQDE

[5] Eishay Smith. jvm-serializers wiki. github.com, October 2023. Archived at perma.cc/PJP7-WCNG
[ 5] Eishay Smith. jvm-serializers 维基. github.com, 2023 年 10 月. 存档于 perma.cc/PJP7-WCNG

[6] XML Is a Poor Copy of S-Expressions. wiki.c2.com, May 2013. Archived at perma.cc/7FAN-YBKL
[ 6] XML 是 S 表达式的糟糕复制品. wiki.c2.com, 2013 年 5 月. 存档于 perma.cc/7FAN-YBKL

[7] Julia Evans. Examples of floating point problems. jvns.ca, January 2023. Archived at perma.cc/M57L-QKKW
[ 7] Julia Evans. 浮点问题的示例. jvns.ca, 2023 年 1 月. 存档于 perma.cc/M57L-QKKW

[8] Matt Harris. Snowflake: An Update and Some Very Important Information. Email to Twitter Development Talk mailing list, October 2010. Archived at perma.cc/8UBV-MZ3D
[ 8] Matt Harris. Snowflake：更新及一些非常重要的信息。发给 Twitter 开发讨论邮件列表的电子邮件，2010 年 10 月。存档于 perma.cc/8UBV-MZ3D

[9] Yakov Shafranovich. RFC 4180: Common Format and MIME Type for Comma-Separated Values (CSV) Files. IETF, October 2005.
[ 9] Yakov Shafranovich. RFC 4180：逗号分隔值（CSV）文件的通用格式和 MIME 类型。IETF，2005 年 10 月。

[10] Andy Coates. Evolving JSON Schemas - Part I and Part II. creekservice.org, January 2024. Archived at perma.cc/MZW3-UA54 and perma.cc/GT5H-WKZ5
[ 10] Andy Coates. 进化的 JSON 模式 - 第一部分和第二部分。creekservice.org，2024 年 1 月。存档于 perma.cc/MZW3-UA54 和 perma.cc/GT5H-WKZ5

[11] Pierre Genevès, Nabil Layaïda, and Vincent Quint. Ensuring Query Compatibility with Evolving XML Schemas. INRIA Technical Report 6711, November 2008.
[ 11] Pierre Genevès, Nabil Layaïda, 和 Vincent Quint. 确保与进化 XML 模式的查询兼容性。INRIA 技术报告 6711，2008 年 11 月。

[12] Tim Bray. Bits On the Wire. tbray.org, November 2019. Archived at perma.cc/3BT3-BQU3
[ 12] Tim Bray. 网络上的比特. tbray.org, 2019 年 11 月. 存档于 perma.cc/3BT3-BQU3

[13] Mark Slee, Aditya Agarwal, and Marc Kwiatkowski. Thrift: Scalable Cross-Language Services Implementation. Facebook technical report, April 2007. Archived at perma.cc/22BS-TUFB
[ 13] Mark Slee, Aditya Agarwal, 和 Marc Kwiatkowski. Thrift: 可扩展的跨语言服务实现. Facebook 技术报告, 2007 年 4 月. 存档于 perma.cc/22BS-TUFB

[14] Martin Kleppmann. Schema Evolution in Avro, Protocol Buffers and Thrift. martin.kleppmann.com, December 2012. Archived at perma.cc/E4R2-9RJT
[ 14] Martin Kleppmann. Avro、协议缓冲区和 Thrift 中的模式演变. martin.kleppmann.com, 2012 年 12 月. 存档于 perma.cc/E4R2-9RJT

[15] Doug Cutting, Chad Walters, Jim Kellerman, et al. [PROPOSAL] New Subproject: Avro. Email thread on hadoop-general mailing list, lists.apache.org, April 2009. Archived at perma.cc/4A79-BMEB
[ 15] Doug Cutting, Chad Walters, Jim Kellerman 等. [提案] 新子项目: Avro. 在 hadoop-general 邮件列表上的邮件线程, lists.apache.org, 2009 年 4 月. 存档于 perma.cc/4A79-BMEB

[16] Apache Software Foundation. Apache Avro 1.12.0 Specification. avro.apache.org, August 2024. Archived at perma.cc/C36P-5EBQ
[ 16] Apache 软件基金会。Apache Avro 1.12.0 规范。avro.apache.org，2024 年 8 月。存档于 perma.cc/C36P-5EBQ

[17] Apache Software Foundation. Avro schemas as LL(1) CFG definitions. avro.apache.org, August 2024. Archived at perma.cc/JB44-EM9Q
[ 17] Apache 软件基金会。Avro 模式作为 LL(1)上下文无关文法定义。avro.apache.org，2024 年 8 月。存档于 perma.cc/JB44-EM9Q

[18] Tony Hoare. Null References: The Billion Dollar Mistake. Talk at QCon London, March 2009.
[ 18] 托尼·霍尔. 空引用：十亿美元的错误. 2009 年 3 月在伦敦 QCon 的演讲.

[19] Confluent, Inc. Schema Registry Overview. docs.confluent.io, 2024. Archived at perma.cc/92C3-A9JA
[ 19] Confluent, Inc. 模式注册概述. docs.confluent.io, 2024. 存档于 perma.cc/92C3-A9JA

[20] Aditya Auradkar and Tom Quiggle. Introducing Espresso—LinkedIn’s Hot New Distributed Document Store. engineering.linkedin.com, January 2015. Archived at perma.cc/FX4P-VW9T
[ 20] Aditya Auradkar 和 Tom Quiggle. 介绍 Espresso——LinkedIn 的热门新分布式文档存储. engineering.linkedin.com, 2015 年 1 月. 存档于 perma.cc/FX4P-VW9T

[21] Jay Kreps. Putting Apache Kafka to Use: A Practical Guide to Building a Stream Data Platform (Part 2). confluent.io, February 2015. Archived at perma.cc/8UA4-ZS5S
[ 21] 杰伊·克雷普斯. 使用 Apache Kafka：构建流数据平台的实用指南（第 2 部分）. confluent.io, 2015 年 2 月. 存档于 perma.cc/8UA4-ZS5S

[22] Gwen Shapira. The Problem of Managing Schemas. oreilly.com, November 2014. Archived at perma.cc/BY8Q-RYV3
[ 22] Gwen Shapira. 管理模式的问题. oreilly.com, 2014 年 11 月. 存档于 perma.cc/BY8Q-RYV3

[23] John Larmouth. ASN.1 Complete. Morgan Kaufmann, 1999. ISBN: 978-0-122-33435-1. Archived at perma.cc/GB7Y-XSXQ
[ 23] 约翰·拉默斯. ASN.1 完整版. 摩根·考夫曼, 1999. ISBN: 978-0-122-33435-1. 存档于 perma.cc/GB7Y-XSXQ

[24] Burton S. Kaliski Jr. A Layman’s Guide to a Subset of ASN.1, BER, and DER. Technical Note, RSA Data Security, Inc., November 1993. Archived at perma.cc/2LMN-W9U8
[ 24] Burton S. Kaliski Jr. 《ASN.1、BER 和 DER 子集的外行指南》。技术说明，RSA 数据安全公司，1993 年 11 月。存档于 perma.cc/2LMN-W9U8

[25] Jacob Hoffman-Andrews. A Warm Welcome to ASN.1 and DER. letsencrypt.org, April 2020. Archived at perma.cc/CYT2-GPQ8
[ 25] Jacob Hoffman-Andrews. 《热烈欢迎 ASN.1 和 DER》。letsencrypt.org，2020 年 4 月。存档于 perma.cc/CYT2-GPQ8

[26] Lev Walkin. Question: Extensibility and Dropping Fields. lionet.info, September 2010. Archived at perma.cc/VX8E-NLH3
[ 26] Lev Walkin. 问题：可扩展性和丢弃字段。lionet.info，2010 年 9 月。存档于 perma.cc/VX8E-NLH3

[27] Jacqueline Xu. Online migrations at scale. stripe.com, February 2017. Archived at perma.cc/X59W-DK7Y
[ 27] Jacqueline Xu. 大规模在线迁移。stripe.com，2017 年 2 月。存档于 perma.cc/X59W-DK7Y

[28] Geoffrey Litt, Peter van Hardenberg, and Orion Henry. Project Cambria: Translate your data with lenses. Technical Report, Ink & Switch, October 2020. Archived at perma.cc/WA4V-VKDB
[ 28] Geoffrey Litt, Peter van Hardenberg, 和 Orion Henry. 项目 Cambria：用透镜翻译您的数据。技术报告，Ink & Switch，2020 年 10 月。存档于 perma.cc/WA4V-VKDB

[29] Pat Helland. Data on the Outside Versus Data on the Inside. At 2nd Biennial Conference on Innovative Data Systems Research (CIDR), January 2005.
[ 29] Pat Helland. 外部数据与内部数据。第二届创新数据系统研究双年会议（CIDR），2005 年 1 月。

[30] Roy Thomas Fielding. Architectural Styles and the Design of Network-Based Software Architectures. PhD Thesis, University of California, Irvine, 2000. Archived at perma.cc/LWY9-7BPE
[ 30] Roy Thomas Fielding. 架构风格与基于网络的软件架构设计。博士论文，加州大学尔湾分校，2000 年。存档于 perma.cc/LWY9-7BPE

[31] Roy Thomas Fielding. REST APIs must be hypertext-driven.” roy.gbiv.com, October 2008. Archived at perma.cc/M2ZW-8ATG
[ 31] Roy Thomas Fielding. REST API 必须是超文本驱动的。” roy.gbiv.com，2008 年 10 月。存档于 perma.cc/M2ZW-8ATG

[32] OpenAPI Specification Version 3.1.0. swagger.io, February 2021. Archived at perma.cc/3S6S-K5M4
[ 32] OpenAPI 规范版本 3.1.0. swagger.io, 2021 年 2 月. 存档于 perma.cc/3S6S-K5M4

[33] Michi Henning. The Rise and Fall of CORBA. Communications of the ACM, volume 51, issue 8, pages 52–57, August 2008. doi:10.1145/1378704.1378718
[ 33] Michi Henning. CORBA 的兴起与衰落. ACM 通讯, 第 51 卷, 第 8 期, 第 52–57 页, 2008 年 8 月. doi:10.1145/1378704.1378718

[34] Pete Lacey. The S Stands for Simple. harmful.cat-v.org, November 2006. Archived at perma.cc/4PMK-Z9X7
[ 34] Pete Lacey. S 代表简单. harmful.cat-v.org, 2006 年 11 月. 存档于 perma.cc/4PMK-Z9X7

[35] Stefan Tilkov. Interview: Pete Lacey Criticizes Web Services. infoq.com, December 2006. Archived at perma.cc/JWF4-XY3P
[ 35] Stefan Tilkov. 采访：Pete Lacey 批评网络服务。infoq.com，2006 年 12 月。存档于 perma.cc/JWF4-XY3P

[36] Tim Bray. The Loyal WS-Opposition. tbray.org, September 2004. Archived at perma.cc/J5Q8-69Q2
[ 36] Tim Bray. 忠诚的 WS-反对派。tbray.org，2004 年 9 月。存档于 perma.cc/J5Q8-69Q2

[37] Andrew D. Birrell and Bruce Jay Nelson. Implementing Remote Procedure Calls. ACM Transactions on Computer Systems (TOCS), volume 2, issue 1, pages 39–59, February 1984. doi:10.1145/2080.357392
[ 37] Andrew D. Birrell 和 Bruce Jay Nelson。实现远程过程调用。ACM 计算机系统学报（TOCS），第 2 卷，第 1 期，页码 39–59，1984 年 2 月。doi:10.1145/2080.357392

[38] Jim Waldo, Geoff Wyant, Ann Wollrath, and Sam Kendall. A Note on Distributed Computing. Sun Microsystems Laboratories, Inc., Technical Report TR-94-29, November 1994. Archived at perma.cc/8LRZ-BSZR
[ 38] Jim Waldo, Geoff Wyant, Ann Wollrath 和 Sam Kendall。关于分布式计算的说明。Sun Microsystems Laboratories, Inc.，技术报告 TR-94-29，1994 年 11 月。存档于 perma.cc/8LRZ-BSZR

[39] Steve Vinoski. Convenience over Correctness. IEEE Internet Computing, volume 12, issue 4, pages 89–92, July 2008. doi:10.1109/MIC.2008.75
[ 39] Steve Vinoski。便利性优于正确性。IEEE 互联网计算，第 12 卷，第 4 期，页码 89–92，2008 年 7 月。doi:10.1109/MIC.2008.75

[40] Brandur Leach. Designing robust and predictable APIs with idempotency. stripe.com, February 2017. Archived at perma.cc/JD22-XZQT
[ 40] Brandur Leach. 设计稳健且可预测的具有幂等性的 API。stripe.com，2017 年 2 月。存档于 perma.cc/JD22-XZQT

[41] Sam Rose. Load Balancing. samwho.dev, April 2023. Archived at perma.cc/Q7BA-9AE2
[ 41] Sam Rose. 负载均衡。samwho.dev，2023 年 4 月。存档于 perma.cc/Q7BA-9AE2

[42] Troy Hunt. Your API versioning is wrong, which is why I decided to do it 3 different wrong ways. troyhunt.com, February 2014. Archived at perma.cc/9DSW-DGR5
[ 42] Troy Hunt. 你的 API 版本控制是错误的，这就是我决定以三种不同的错误方式来做的原因。troyhunt.com，2014 年 2 月。存档于 perma.cc/9DSW-DGR5

[43] Brandur Leach. APIs as infrastructure: future-proofing Stripe with versioning. stripe.com, August 2017. Archived at perma.cc/L63K-USFW
[ 43] Brandur Leach. 将 API 作为基础设施：通过版本控制为 Stripe 做好未来准备。stripe.com，2017 年 8 月。存档于 perma.cc/L63K-USFW

[44] Alexandre Alves, Assaf Arkin, Sid Askary, et al. Web Services Business Process Execution Language Version 2.0. docs.oasis-open.org, April 2007.
[ 44] Alexandre Alves, Assaf Arkin, Sid Askary 等. Web Services Business Process Execution Language 版本 2.0. docs.oasis-open.org, 2007 年 4 月。

[45] What is a Temporal Service? docs.temporal.io, 2024. Archived at perma.cc/32P3-CJ9V
[ 45] 什么是时间服务？docs.temporal.io，2024 年。存档于 perma.cc/32P3-CJ9V

[46] Stephan Ewen. Why we built Restate. restate.dev, August 2023. Archived at perma.cc/BJJ2-X75K
[ 46] Stephan Ewen. 我们为什么要构建 Restate。restate.dev，2023 年 8 月。存档于 perma.cc/BJJ2-X75K

[47] Keith Tenzer and Joshua Smith. Idempotency and Durable Execution. temporal.io, February 2024. Archived at perma.cc/9LGW-PCLU
[ 47] Keith Tenzer 和 Joshua Smith. 幂等性和持久执行. temporal.io, 2024 年 2 月。存档于 perma.cc/9LGW-PCLU

[48] What is a Temporal Workflow? docs.temporal.io, 2024. Archived at perma.cc/B5C5-Y396
[ 48] 什么是时间工作流？ docs.temporal.io, 2024. 存档于 perma.cc/B5C5-Y396

[49] Srinath Perera. Exploring Event-Driven Architecture: A Beginner’s Guide for Cloud Native Developers. wso2.com, August 2023. Archived at archive.org
[ 49] Srinath Perera. 探索事件驱动架构：云原生开发者的初学者指南。wso2.com, 2023 年 8 月. 存档于 archive.org

[50] Philip A. Bernstein, Sergey Bykov, Alan Geller, Gabriel Kliot, and Jorgen Thelin. Orleans: Distributed Virtual Actors for Programmability and Scalability. Microsoft Research Technical Report MSR-TR-2014-41, March 2014. Archived at perma.cc/PD3U-WDMF
[ 50] Philip A. Bernstein, Sergey Bykov, Alan Geller, Gabriel Kliot, 和 Jorgen Thelin. Orleans：用于可编程性和可扩展性的分布式虚拟演员。微软研究技术报告 MSR-TR-2014-41, 2014 年 3 月. 存档于 perma.cc/PD3U-WDMF
