Chapter 7. Sharding
第七章. 分片

Clearly, we must break away from the sequential and not limit the computers. We must state definitions and provide for priorities and descriptions of data. We must state relationships, not procedures.
显然，我们必须摆脱顺序限制，不要限制计算机。我们必须明确定义，并提供数据的优先级和描述。我们必须陈述关系，而不是程序。

Grace Murray Hopper, Management and the Computer of the Future (1962)
格蕾丝·穆雷·霍普，未来的管理与计算机（1962）

A Note for Early Release Readers
给提前发布读者的说明

With Early Release ebooks, you get books in their earliest form—the author’s raw and unedited content as they write—so you can take advantage of these technologies long before the official release of these titles.
通过早期发布的电子书，您可以获得书籍的最初形式——作者在写作时的原始和未编辑内容——因此您可以在这些书籍正式发布之前就利用这些技术。

This will be the 7th chapter of the final book. The GitHub repo for this book is https://github.com/ept/ddia2-feedback.
这将是最终书籍的第七章。该书的 GitHub 仓库是 https://github.com/ept/ddia2-feedback。

If you have comments about how we might improve the content and/or examples in this book, or if you notice missing material within this chapter, please reach out on GitHub.
如果您对我们如何改进本书的内容和/或示例有任何意见，或者如果您在本章中发现缺失的材料，请在 GitHub 上与我们联系。

A distributed database typically distributes data across nodes in two ways:
分布式数据库通常通过两种方式在节点之间分配数据：

Having a copy of the same data on multiple nodes: this is replication, which we discussed in Chapter 6.
在多个节点上拥有相同数据的副本：这就是复制，我们在第六章中讨论过。

If we don’t want every node to store all the data, we can split up a large amount of data into smaller shards or partitions, and store different shards on different nodes. We’ll discuss sharding in this chapter.
如果我们不希望每个节点存储所有数据，我们可以将大量数据拆分成更小的分片或分区，并将不同的分片存储在不同的节点上。我们将在本章讨论分片。

Normally, shards are defined in such a way that each piece of data (each record, row, or document) belongs to exactly one shard. There are various ways of achieving this, which we discuss in depth in this chapter. In effect, each shard is a small database of its own, although some database systems support operations that touch multiple shards at the same time.
通常，分片的定义方式是每个数据片段（每条记录、行或文档）只属于一个分片。实现这一点的方法有多种，我们将在本章深入讨论。实际上，每个分片都是一个独立的小型数据库，尽管某些数据库系统支持同时操作多个分片。

Sharding is usually combined with replication so that copies of each shard are stored on multiple nodes. This means that, even though each record belongs to exactly one shard, it may still be stored on several different nodes for fault tolerance.
分片通常与复制结合使用，以便每个分片的副本存储在多个节点上。这意味着，尽管每条记录只属于一个分片，但它仍然可以存储在多个不同的节点上以实现容错。

A node may store more than one shard. If a single-leader replication model is used, the combination of sharding and replication can look like Figure 7-1, for example. Each shard’s leader is assigned to one node, and its followers are assigned to other nodes. Each node may be the leader for some shards and a follower for other shards, but each shard still only has one leader.
一个节点可以存储多个分片。如果使用单主复制模型，分片和复制的组合可以如图 7-1 所示。例如，每个分片的主节点被分配给一个节点，而其从节点被分配给其他节点。每个节点可以是某些分片的主节点，同时也是其他分片的从节点，但每个分片仍然只有一个主节点。

ddia 0701
Figure 7-1. Combining replication and sharding: each node acts as leader for some shards and follower for other shards.
图 7-1. 结合复制和分片：每个节点在某些分片中充当领导者，而在其他分片中充当跟随者。

Everything we discussed in Chapter 6 about replication of databases applies equally to replication of shards. Since the choice of sharding scheme is mostly independent of the choice of replication scheme, we will ignore replication in this chapter for the sake of simplicity.
我们在第 6 章中讨论的关于数据库复制的内容同样适用于分片的复制。由于分片方案的选择与复制方案的选择大多是独立的，因此为了简化起见，我们将在本章中忽略复制。

Sharding and Partitioning
分片和分区

What we call a shard in this chapter has many different names depending on which software you’re using: it’s called a partition in Kafka, a range in CockroachDB, a region in HBase and TiDB, a tablet in Bigtable and YugabyteDB, a vnode in Cassandra, ScyllaDB, and Riak, and a vBucket in Couchbase, to name just a few.
在本章中我们所称的分片，根据您使用的软件的不同，有许多不同的名称：在 Kafka 中称为分区，在 CockroachDB 中称为范围，在 HBase 和 TiDB 中称为区域，在 Bigtable 和 YugabyteDB 中称为平板，在 Cassandra、ScyllaDB 和 Riak 中称为 vnode，在 Couchbase 中称为 vBucket，仅举几例。

Some databases treat partitions and shards as two distinct concepts. For example, in PostgreSQL, partitioning is a way of splitting a large table into several files that are stored on the same machine (which has several advantages, such as making it very fast to delete an entire partition), whereas sharding splits a dataset across multiple machines [1, 2]. In many other systems, partitioning is just another word for sharding.
一些数据库将分区和分片视为两个不同的概念。例如，在 PostgreSQL 中，分区是一种将大表拆分为存储在同一台机器上的多个文件的方法（这有几个优点，例如可以非常快速地删除整个分区），而分片则是将数据集分布在多台机器上 [1, 2]。在许多其他系统中，分区只是分片的另一种说法。

While partitioning is quite descriptive, the term sharding is perhaps surprising. According to one theory, the term arose from the online role-play game Ultima Online, in which a magic crystal was shattered into pieces, and each of those shards refracted a copy of the game world [3]. The term shard thus came to mean one of a set of parallel game servers, and later was carried over to databases. Another theory is that shard was originally an acronym of System for Highly Available Replicated Data—reportedly a 1980s database, details of which are lost to history.
虽然分区这个术语相当直观，但分片这个术语可能令人惊讶。根据一种理论，这个术语源于在线角色扮演游戏《终极在线》，在游戏中，一个魔法水晶被打碎成碎片，每个碎片都折射出游戏世界的一个副本 [3]。因此，shard 这个术语逐渐意味着一组并行游戏服务器中的一个，后来被引入到数据库中。另一种理论认为，shard 最初是“高度可用复制数据系统”（System for Highly Available Replicated Data）的缩写——据说这是一个 1980 年代的数据库，具体细节已失传。

By the way, partitioning has nothing to do with network partitions (netsplits), a type of fault in the network between nodes. We will discuss such faults in [Link to Come].
顺便提一下，分区与网络分区（netsplits）无关，后者是一种节点之间网络故障。我们将在[即将到来的链接]中讨论此类故障。

Pros and Cons of Sharding
分片的优缺点

The primary reason for sharding a database is scalability: it’s a solution if the volume of data or the write throughput has become too great for a single node to handle, as it allows you to spread that data and those writes across multiple nodes. (If read throughput is the problem, you don’t necessarily need sharding—you can use read scaling as discussed in Chapter 6.)
分片数据库的主要原因是可扩展性：当数据量或写入吞吐量变得过于庞大，无法由单个节点处理时，分片是一种解决方案，因为它允许您将数据和写入分散到多个节点上。（如果问题出在读取吞吐量上，您不一定需要分片——您可以使用第 6 章中讨论的读取扩展。）

In fact, sharding is one of the main tools we have for achieving horizontal scaling (a scale-out architecture), as discussed in “Shared-Memory, Shared-Disk, and Shared-Nothing Architecture”: that is, allowing a system to grow its capacity not by moving to a bigger machine, but by adding more (smaller) machines. If you can divide the workload such that each shard handles a roughly equal share, you can then assign those shards to different machines in order to process their data and queries in parallel.
实际上，分片是我们实现横向扩展（扩展架构）的主要工具之一，如“共享内存、共享磁盘和无共享架构”中所讨论的：即允许系统通过添加更多（较小的）机器来增加其容量，而不是迁移到更大的机器。如果您能够将工作负载划分，使每个分片处理大致相等的份额，那么您就可以将这些分片分配给不同的机器，以便并行处理它们的数据和查询。

While replication is useful at both small and large scale, because it enables fault tolerance and offline operation, sharding is a heavyweight solution that is mostly relevant at large scale. If your data volume and write throughput are such that you can process them on a single machine (and a single machine can do a lot nowadays!), it’s often better to avoid sharding and stick with a single-shard database.
虽然复制在小规模和大规模上都很有用，因为它能够实现容错和离线操作，但分片是一种重量级解决方案，主要适用于大规模。如果您的数据量和写入吞吐量足够小，可以在单台机器上处理（而且如今单台机器的处理能力很强！），通常最好避免分片，使用单片数据库。

The reason for this recommendation is that sharding often adds complexity: you typically have to decide which records to put in which shard by choosing a partition key; all records with the same partition key are placed in the same shard [4]. This choice matters because accessing a record is fast if you know which shard it’s in, but if you don’t know the shard you have to do an inefficient search across all shards, and the sharding scheme is difficult to change.
推荐这样做的原因是，分片通常会增加复杂性：您通常需要通过选择一个分区键来决定将哪些记录放入哪个分片；所有具有相同分区键的记录都放在同一个分片中[4]。这个选择很重要，因为如果您知道记录所在的分片，访问记录是快速的，但如果您不知道分片，就必须在所有分片中进行低效的搜索，而分片方案也很难更改。

Thus, sharding often works well for key-value data, where you can easily shard by key, but it’s harder with relational data where you may want to search by a secondary index, or join records that may be distributed across different shards. We will discuss this further in “Sharding and Secondary Indexes”.
因此，分片通常适用于键值数据，您可以轻松按键进行分片，但对于关系数据则更困难，因为您可能希望通过二级索引进行搜索，或者连接可能分布在不同分片中的记录。我们将在“分片和二级索引”中进一步讨论这一点。

Another problem with sharding is that a write may need to update related records in several different shards. While transactions on a single node are quite common (see Chapter 8), ensuring consistency across multiple shards requires a distributed transaction. As we shall see in [Link to Come], distributed transactions are available in some databases, but they are usually much slower than single-node transactions, may become a bottleneck for the system as a whole, and some systems don’t support them at all.
分片的另一个问题是，写操作可能需要在几个不同的分片中更新相关记录。虽然在单个节点上的事务是相当常见的（见第 8 章），但在多个分片之间确保一致性需要分布式事务。正如我们将在[链接待补充]中看到的，某些数据库提供分布式事务，但它们通常比单节点事务慢得多，可能成为整个系统的瓶颈，并且有些系统根本不支持它们。

Some systems use sharding even on a single machine, typically running one single-threaded process per CPU core to make use of the parallelism in the CPU, or to take advantage of a nonuniform memory access (NUMA) architecture in which some banks of memory are closer to one CPU than to others [5]. For example, Redis, VoltDB, and FoundationDB use one process per core, and rely on sharding to spread load across CPU cores in the same machine [6].
一些系统甚至在单台机器上使用分片，通常为每个 CPU 核心运行一个单线程进程，以利用 CPU 中的并行性，或利用非均匀内存访问（NUMA）架构，其中某些内存银行离一个 CPU 比其他 CPU 更近[5]。例如，Redis、VoltDB 和 FoundationDB 为每个核心使用一个进程，并依赖分片在同一台机器的 CPU 核心之间分散负载[6]。

Sharding for Multitenancy
多租户的分片

Software as a Service (SaaS) products and cloud services are often multitenant, where each tenant is a customer. Multiple users may have logins on the same tenant, but each tenant has a self-contained dataset that is separate from other tenants. For example, in an email marketing service, each business that signs up is typically a separate tenant, since one business’s newsletter signups, delivery data etc. are separate from those of other businesses.
软件即服务（SaaS）产品和云服务通常是多租户的，每个租户都是一个客户。多个用户可能在同一个租户上有登录，但每个租户都有一个与其他租户分开的自包含数据集。例如，在一个电子邮件营销服务中，每个注册的企业通常是一个单独的租户，因为一个企业的新闻通讯注册、投递数据等与其他企业是分开的。

Sometimes sharding is used to implement multitenant systems: either each tenant is given a separate shard, or multiple small tenants may be grouped together into a larger shard. These shards might be physically separate databases (which we previously touched on in “Embedded storage engines”), or separately manageable portions of a larger logical database [7]. Using sharding for multitenancy has several advantages:
有时会使用分片来实现多租户系统：要么每个租户被分配一个单独的分片，要么多个小租户可以被组合到一个更大的分片中。这些分片可能是物理上分开的数据库（我们之前在“嵌入式存储引擎”中提到过），或者是一个更大逻辑数据库的可单独管理部分 [7]。使用分片进行多租户有几个优点：

Resource isolation
资源隔离
If one tenant performs a computationally expensive operation, it is less likely that other tenants’ performance will be affected if they are running on different shards.
如果一个租户执行了计算密集型操作，那么如果其他租户在不同的分片上运行，其他租户的性能受到影响的可能性就会降低。

Permission isolation
权限隔离
If there is a bug in your access control logic, it’s less likely that you will accidentally give one tenant access to another tenant’s data if those tenants’ datasets are stored physically separately from each other.
如果您的访问控制逻辑中存在漏洞，那么如果这些租户的数据集物理上彼此分开存储，您意外地将一个租户的访问权限授予另一个租户的数据的可能性就会降低。

Cell-based architecture
基于单元的架构
You can apply sharding not only at the data storage level, but also for the services running your application code. In a cell-based architecture, the services and storage for a particular set of tenants are grouped into a self-contained cell, and different cells are set up such that they can run largely independently from each other. This approach provides fault isolation: that is, a fault in one cell remains limited to that cell, and tenants in other cells are not affected [8].
您可以不仅在数据存储层应用分片，还可以在运行应用程序代码的服务层进行分片。在基于单元的架构中，特定租户集的服务和存储被分组到一个自包含的单元中，不同的单元被设置为可以在很大程度上独立运行。这种方法提供了故障隔离：即一个单元中的故障仅限于该单元，其他单元中的租户不受影响 [ 8]。

Per-tenant backup and restore
每个租户的备份和恢复
Backing up each tenant’s shard separately makes it possible to restore a tenant’s state from a backup without affecting other tenants, which can be useful in case the tenant accidentally deletes or overwrites important data [9].
单独备份每个租户的分片使得可以从备份中恢复租户的状态，而不影响其他租户，这在租户意外删除或覆盖重要数据时非常有用 [9]。

Regulatory compliance
合规性
Data privacy regulation such as the GDPR gives individuals the right to access and delete all data stored about them. If each person’s data is stored in a separate shard, this translates into simple data export and deletion operations on their shard [10].
数据隐私法规如 GDPR 赋予个人访问和删除存储关于他们的所有数据的权利。如果每个人的数据存储在一个单独的分片中，这就转化为对他们的分片进行简单的数据导出和删除操作 [10]。

Data residence
数据驻留
If a particular tenant’s data needs to be stored in a particular jurisdiction in order to comply with data residency laws, a region-aware database can allow you to assign that tenant’s shard to a particular region.
如果特定租户的数据需要存储在特定的司法管辖区以遵守数据驻留法律，区域感知数据库可以让您将该租户的分片分配到特定区域。

Gradual schema rollout
渐进式模式发布
Schema migrations (previously discussed in “Schema flexibility in the document model”) can be rolled out gradually, one tenant at a time. This reduces risk, as you can detect problems before they affect all tenants, but it can be difficult to do transactionally [11].
模式迁移（在“文档模型中的模式灵活性”中讨论过）可以逐步推出，一次一个租户。这降低了风险，因为您可以在问题影响所有租户之前检测到它们，但在事务上执行可能会很困难 [ 11]。

The main challenges around using sharding for multitenancy are:
使用分片进行多租户管理的主要挑战是：

It assumes that each individual tenant is small enough to fit on a single node. If that is not the case, and you have a single tenant that’s too big for one machine, you would need to additionally perform sharding within a single tenant, which brings us back to the topic of sharding for scalability [12].
它假设每个单独的租户足够小，可以适应单个节点。如果情况并非如此，并且您有一个单个租户的规模过大，无法在一台机器上处理，您还需要在单个租户内进行分片，这又将我们带回到可扩展性分片的话题 [ 12]。

If you have many small tenants, then creating a separate shard for each one may incur too much overhead. You could group several small tenants together into a bigger shard, but then you have the problem of how you move tenants from one shard to another as they grow.
如果你有很多小租户，那么为每个租户创建一个单独的分片可能会产生过多的开销。你可以将几个小租户组合在一起形成一个更大的分片，但这样你就会面临如何在租户增长时将其从一个分片移动到另一个分片的问题。

If you ever need to support features that connect data across multiple tenants, these become harder to implement if you need to join data across multiple shards.
如果你需要支持跨多个租户连接数据的功能，那么如果需要在多个分片之间连接数据，这些功能的实现将变得更加困难。

Sharding of Key-Value Data
键值数据的分片

Say you have a large amount of data, and you want to shard it. How do you decide which records to store on which nodes?
假设你有大量数据，并且想要进行分片。你如何决定将哪些记录存储在哪些节点上？

Our goal with sharding is to spread the data and the query load evenly across nodes. If every node takes a fair share, then—in theory—10 nodes should be able to handle 10 times as much data and 10 times the read and write throughput of a single node (ignoring replication). Moreover, if we add or remove a node, we want to be able to rebalance the load so that it is evenly distributed across the 11 (when adding) or the remaining 9 (when removing) nodes.
我们进行分片的目标是将数据和查询负载均匀地分布在各个节点上。如果每个节点都能公平地分担负载，那么——理论上——10 个节点应该能够处理 10 倍于单个节点的数据量和 10 倍的读写吞吐量（忽略复制）。此外，如果我们添加或移除一个节点，我们希望能够重新平衡负载，以便在添加时均匀分布在 11 个节点上，或在移除时均匀分布在剩下的 9 个节点上。

If the sharding is unfair, so that some shards have more data or queries than others, we call it skewed. The presence of skew makes sharding much less effective. In an extreme case, all the load could end up on one shard, so 9 out of 10 nodes are idle and your bottleneck is the single busy node. A shard with disproportionately high load is called a hot shard or hot spot. If there’s one key with a particularly high load (e.g., a celebrity in a social network), we call it a hot key.
如果分片不公平，以至于某些分片的数据或查询比其他分片多，我们称之为倾斜。倾斜的存在使得分片的效果大大降低。在极端情况下，所有负载可能最终集中在一个分片上，这样 10 个节点中的 9 个处于空闲状态，而你的瓶颈就是那个唯一繁忙的节点。负载不成比例高的分片称为热分片或热点。如果有一个键的负载特别高（例如，社交网络中的名人），我们称之为热键。

Therefore we need an algorithm that takes as input the partition key of a record, and tells us which shard that record is in. In a key-value store the partition key is usually the key, or the first part of the key. In a relational model the partition key might be some column of a table (not necessarily its primary key). That algorithm needs to be amenable to rebalancing in order to relieve hot spots.
因此，我们需要一个算法，该算法以记录的分区键为输入，并告诉我们该记录所在的分片。在键值存储中，分区键通常是键，或键的第一部分。在关系模型中，分区键可能是表中的某一列（不一定是其主键）。该算法需要能够进行再平衡，以缓解热点问题。

Sharding by Key Range
按键范围分片

One way of sharding is to assign a contiguous range of partition keys (from some minimum to some maximum) to each shard, like the volumes of a paper encyclopedia, as illustrated in Figure 7-2. In this example, an entry’s partition key is its title. If you want to look up the entry for a particular title, you can easily determine which shard contains that entry by finding the volume whose key range contains the title you’re looking for, and thus pick the correct book off the shelf.
一种分片方法是将一段连续的分区键范围（从某个最小值到某个最大值）分配给每个分片，就像纸质百科全书的卷册一样，如图 7-2 所示。在这个例子中，条目的分区键是其标题。如果您想查找特定标题的条目，可以通过找到包含您要查找的标题的键范围的卷册，轻松确定哪个分片包含该条目，从而从书架上选择正确的书。

ddia 0702
Figure 7-2. A print encyclopedia is sharded by key range.
图 7-2. 纸质百科全书按键范围进行分片。

The ranges of keys are not necessarily evenly spaced, because your data may not be evenly distributed. For example, in Figure 7-2, volume 1 contains words starting with A and B, but volume 12 contains words starting with T, U, V, W, X, Y, and Z. Simply having one volume per two letters of the alphabet would lead to some volumes being much bigger than others. In order to distribute the data evenly, the shard boundaries need to adapt to the data.
键的范围不一定均匀分布，因为您的数据可能并不均匀分布。例如，在图 7-2 中，卷 1 包含以 A 和 B 开头的单词，而卷 12 包含以 T、U、V、W、X、Y 和 Z 开头的单词。仅仅按照字母表每两个字母一个卷的方式，会导致某些卷的大小远大于其他卷。为了均匀分配数据，分片边界需要适应数据。

The shard boundaries might be chosen manually by an administrator, or the database can choose them automatically. Manual key-range sharding is used by Vitess (a sharding layer for MySQL), for example; the automatic variant is used by Bigtable, its open source equivalent HBase, the range-based sharding option in MongoDB, CockroachDB, RethinkDB, and FoundationDB [6]. YugabyteDB offers both manual and automatic tablet splitting.
分片边界可以由管理员手动选择，也可以由数据库自动选择。例如，Vitess（MySQL 的分片层）使用手动键范围分片；而 Bigtable、其开源等价物 HBase、MongoDB 中的基于范围的分片选项、CockroachDB、RethinkDB 和 FoundationDB 则使用自动变体[6]。YugabyteDB 提供手动和自动的表分割。

Within each shard, keys are stored in sorted order (e.g., in a B-tree or SSTables, as discussed in Chapter 4). This has the advantage that range scans are easy, and you can treat the key as a concatenated index in order to fetch several related records in one query (see “Multidimensional and Full-Text Indexes”). For example, consider an application that stores data from a network of sensors, where the key is the timestamp of the measurement. Range scans are very useful in this case, because they let you easily fetch, say, all the readings from a particular month.
在每个分片内，键以排序的顺序存储（例如，在 B 树或 SSTables 中，如第 4 章所讨论的）。这有一个优点，即范围扫描很简单，您可以将键视为一个连接的索引，以便在一次查询中获取多个相关记录（参见“多维和全文索引”）。例如，考虑一个存储传感器网络数据的应用程序，其中键是测量的时间戳。在这种情况下，范围扫描非常有用，因为它们可以让您轻松获取，例如，某个月的所有读数。

A downside of key range sharding is that you can easily get a hot shard if there are a lot of writes to nearby keys. For example, if the key is a timestamp, then the shards correspond to ranges of time—e.g., one shard per month. Unfortunately, if you write data from the sensors to the database as the measurements happen, all the writes end up going to the same shard (the one for this month), so that shard can be overloaded with writes while others sit idle [13].
键范围分片的一个缺点是，如果对附近键的写入很多，您可能会轻易得到一个热点分片。例如，如果键是时间戳，则分片对应于时间范围——例如，每个月一个分片。不幸的是，如果您在测量发生时将传感器的数据写入数据库，所有的写入最终都会进入同一个分片（这个月的分片），因此该分片可能会因写入过多而过载，而其他分片则处于闲置状态 [ 13]。

To avoid this problem in the sensor database, you need to use something other than the timestamp as the first element of the key. For example, you could prefix each timestamp with the sensor ID so that the key ordering is first by sensor ID and then by timestamp. Assuming you have many sensors active at the same time, the write load will end up more evenly spread across the shards. The downside is that when you want to fetch the values of multiple sensors within a time range, you now need to perform a separate range query for each sensor.
为了避免传感器数据库中的这个问题，您需要使用其他元素而不是时间戳作为键的第一个元素。例如，您可以在每个时间戳前加上传感器 ID，这样键的排序就会首先按传感器 ID，然后按时间戳。假设您有许多传感器同时处于活动状态，写入负载将更均匀地分布在各个分片上。缺点是，当您想在时间范围内获取多个传感器的值时，现在需要为每个传感器执行单独的范围查询。

Rebalancing key-range sharded data
重新平衡按键范围分片的数据

When you first set up your database, there are no key ranges to split into shards. Some databases, such as HBase and MongoDB, allow you to configure an initial set of shards on an empty database, which is called pre-splitting. This requires that you already have some idea of what the key distribution is going to look like, so that you can choose appropriate key range boundaries [14].
当您首次设置数据库时，没有键范围可以拆分成分片。一些数据库，如 HBase 和 MongoDB，允许您在空数据库上配置一组初始分片，这称为预拆分。这要求您对键分布的外观有一些了解，以便您可以选择合适的键范围边界 [14]。

Later on, as your data volume and write throughput grow, a system with key-range sharding grows by splitting an existing shard into two or more smaller shards, each of which holds a contiguous sub-range of the original shard’s key range. The resulting smaller shards can then be distributed across multiple nodes. If large amounts of data are deleted, you may also need to merge several adjacent shards that have become small into one bigger one. This process is similar to what happens at the top level of a B-tree (see “B-Trees”).
随着数据量和写入吞吐量的增长，具有键范围分片的系统通过将现有分片拆分为两个或更多较小的分片来扩展，每个较小的分片持有原始分片键范围的连续子范围。生成的较小分片可以分布在多个节点上。如果大量数据被删除，您可能还需要将几个相邻的小分片合并为一个更大的分片。这个过程类似于 B 树的顶层所发生的情况（参见“B 树”）。

With databases that manage shard boundaries automatically, a shard split is typically triggered by:
对于自动管理分片边界的数据库，分片拆分通常由以下因素触发：

the shard reaching a configured size (for example, on HBase, the default is 10 GB), or
分片达到配置的大小（例如，在 HBase 中，默认值为 10 GB），或者

in some systems, the write throughput being persistently above some threshold. Thus, a hot shard may be split even if it is not storing a lot of data, so that its write load can be distributed more uniformly.
在某些系统中，写入吞吐量持续高于某个阈值。因此，即使热分片存储的数据不多，也可能会进行拆分，以便更均匀地分配其写入负载。

An advantage of key-range sharding is that the number of shards adapts to the data volume. If there is only a small amount of data, a small number of shards is sufficient, so overheads are small; if there is a huge amount of data, the size of each individual shard is limited to a configurable maximum [15].
键范围分片的一个优点是分片数量可以根据数据量进行调整。如果数据量很小，少量的分片就足够了，因此开销也很小；如果数据量巨大，则每个分片的大小限制在可配置的最大值内 [15]。

A downside of this approach is that splitting a shard is an expensive operation, since it requires all of its data to be rewritten into new files, similarly to a compaction in a log-structured storage engine. A shard that needs splitting is often also one that is under high load, and the cost of splitting can exacerbate that load, risking it becoming overloaded.
这种方法的一个缺点是拆分分片是一项昂贵的操作，因为这需要将所有数据重写到新文件中，类似于日志结构存储引擎中的压缩。需要拆分的分片通常也是负载较高的分片，而拆分的成本可能会加重该负载，导致其过载的风险。

Sharding by Hash of Key
按键的哈希进行分片

Key-range sharding is useful if you want records with nearby (but different) partition keys to be grouped into the same shard; for example, this might be the case with timestamps. If you don’t care whether partition keys are near each other (e.g., if they are tenant IDs in a multitenant application), a common approach is to first hash the partition key before mapping it to a shard.
如果您希望具有相近（但不同）分区键的记录被分组到同一个分片中，键范围分片是有用的；例如，这可能适用于时间戳。如果您不在乎分区键是否彼此接近（例如，如果它们是多租户应用程序中的租户 ID），一种常见的方法是先对分区键进行哈希，然后再将其映射到分片。

A good hash function takes skewed data and makes it uniformly distributed. Say you have a 32-bit hash function that takes a string. Whenever you give it a new string, it returns a seemingly random number between 0 and 232 − 1. Even if the input strings are very similar, their hashes are evenly distributed across that range of numbers (but the same input always produces the same output).
一个好的哈希函数能够将偏斜的数据转化为均匀分布。假设你有一个 32 位的哈希函数，它接受一个字符串。每当你给它一个新的字符串时，它会返回一个看似随机的数字，范围在 0 到 2^ 32 - 1 之间。即使输入的字符串非常相似，它们的哈希值在这个数字范围内也是均匀分布的（但相同的输入总是产生相同的输出）。

For sharding purposes, the hash function need not be cryptographically strong: for example, MongoDB uses MD5, whereas Cassandra and ScyllaDB use Murmur3. Many programming languages have simple hash functions built in (as they are used for hash tables), but they may not be suitable for sharding: for example, in Java’s Object.hashCode() and Ruby’s Object#hash, the same key may have a different hash value in different processes, making them unsuitable for sharding [16].
对于分片目的，哈希函数不需要具备密码学强度：例如，MongoDB 使用 MD5，而 Cassandra 和 ScyllaDB 使用 Murmur3。许多编程语言内置了简单的哈希函数（因为它们用于哈希表），但它们可能不适合用于分片：例如，在 Java 的 Object.hashCode() 和 Ruby 的 Object#hash 中，相同的键在不同的进程中可能具有不同的哈希值，这使得它们不适合用于分片[16]。

Hash modulo number of nodes
哈希取模节点数

Once you have hashed the key, how do you choose which shard to store it in? Maybe your first thought is to take the hash value modulo the number of nodes in the system (using the % operator in many programming languages). For example, hash(key) % 10 would return a number between 0 and 9 (if we write the hash as a decimal number, the hash % 10 would be the last digit). If we have 10 nodes, numbered 0 to 9, that seems like an easy way of assigning each key to a node.
一旦你对密钥进行了哈希，如何选择将其存储在哪个分片中呢？也许你首先想到的是将哈希值对系统中的节点数量取模（在许多编程语言中使用 % 运算符）。例如，hash(key) % 10 将返回一个介于 0 和 9 之间的数字（如果我们将哈希写成十进制数字，hash % 10 将是最后一位数字）。如果我们有 10 个节点，编号为 0 到 9，这似乎是将每个密钥分配给节点的简单方法。

The problem with the mod N approach is that if the number of nodes N changes, most of the keys have to be moved from one node to another. Figure 7-3 shows what happens when you have three nodes and add a fourth. Before the rebalancing, node 0 stored the keys whose hashes are 0, 3, 6, 9, and so on. After adding the fourth node, the key with hash 3 has moved to node 3, the key with hash 6 has moved to node 2, the key with hash 9 has moved to node 1, and so on.
使用 mod N 方法的问题在于，如果节点数量 N 发生变化，大多数密钥必须从一个节点移动到另一个节点。图 7-3 显示了当你有三个节点并添加第四个节点时会发生什么。在重新平衡之前，节点 0 存储哈希为 0、3、6、9 等的密钥。添加第四个节点后，哈希为 3 的密钥移动到了节点 3，哈希为 6 的密钥移动到了节点 2，哈希为 9 的密钥移动到了节点 1，等等。

ddia 0703
Figure 7-3. Assigning keys to nodes by hashing the key and taking it modulo the number of nodes. Changing the number of nodes results in many keys moving from one node to another.
图 7-3. 通过对密钥进行哈希并对节点数量取模来分配密钥到节点。更改节点数量会导致许多密钥从一个节点移动到另一个节点。

The mod N function is easy to compute, but it leads to very inefficient rebalancing because there is a lot of unnecessary movement of records from one node to another. We need an approach that doesn’t move data around more than necessary.
mod N 函数易于计算，但它导致非常低效的重新平衡，因为记录在节点之间的移动过于频繁。我们需要一种方法，尽量减少数据的移动。

Fixed number of shards
固定数量的分片

One simple but widely-used solution is to create many more shards than there are nodes, and to assign several shards to each node. For example, a database running on a cluster of 10 nodes may be split into 1,000 shards from the outset so that 100 shards are assigned to each node. A key is then stored in shard number hash(key) % 1,000, and the system separately keeps track of which shard is stored on which node.
一个简单但广泛使用的解决方案是创建比节点数量多得多的分片，并将多个分片分配给每个节点。例如，运行在 10 个节点集群上的数据库可以从一开始就拆分成 1,000 个分片，以便每个节点分配 100 个分片。然后，键存储在分片编号 hash(key) % 1,000 中，系统单独跟踪每个分片存储在哪个节点上。

Now, if a node is added to the cluster, the system can reassign some of the shards from existing nodes to the new node until they are fairly distributed once again. This process is illustrated in Figure 7-4. If a node is removed from the cluster, the same happens in reverse.
现在，如果向集群中添加一个节点，系统可以将一些分片从现有节点重新分配到新节点，直到它们再次公平分布。这个过程在图 7-4 中进行了说明。如果从集群中移除一个节点，反向操作也会发生。

ddia 0704
Figure 7-4. Adding a new node to a database cluster with multiple shards per node.
图 7-4. 向具有多个分片的数据库集群添加新节点。

In this model, only entire shards are moved between nodes, which is cheaper than splitting shards. The number of shards does not change, nor does the assignment of keys to shards. The only thing that changes is the assignment of shards to nodes. This change of assignment is not immediate—it takes some time to transfer a large amount of data over the network—so the old assignment of shards is used for any reads and writes that happen while the transfer is in progress.
在此模型中，仅在节点之间移动整个分片，这比拆分分片更便宜。分片的数量不变，分片的键分配也不变。唯一改变的是分片与节点的分配。这种分配的变化不是立即的——在网络上转移大量数据需要一些时间——因此在传输进行时，旧的分片分配将用于任何读取和写入操作。

It’s common to choose the number of shards to be a number that is divisible by many factors, so that the dataset can be evenly split across various different numbers of nodes—not requiring the number of nodes to be a power of 2, for example [4]. You can even account for mismatched hardware in your cluster: by assigning more shards to nodes that are more powerful, you can make those nodes take a greater share of the load.
通常选择的分片数量是一个可以被多个因子整除的数字，以便数据集可以在不同数量的节点之间均匀分配——例如，不要求节点数量是 2 的幂[4]。您甚至可以考虑集群中硬件的不匹配：通过将更多的分片分配给更强大的节点，您可以使这些节点承担更大的负载。

This approach to sharding is used in Citus (a sharding layer for PostgreSQL), Riak, Elasticsearch, and Couchbase, among others. It works well as long as you have a good estimate of how many shards you will need when you first create the database. You can then add or remove nodes easily, subject to the limitation that you can’t have more nodes than you have shards.
这种分片方法在 Citus（PostgreSQL 的分片层）、Riak、Elasticsearch 和 Couchbase 等系统中得到了应用。只要在首次创建数据库时对所需的分片数量有一个良好的估计，这种方法就能很好地工作。然后，您可以轻松地添加或删除节点，但有一个限制，即节点的数量不能超过分片的数量。

If you find the originally configured number of shards to be wrong—for example, if you have reached a scale where you need more nodes than you have shards—then an expensive resharding operation is required. It needs to split each shard and write it out to new files, using a lot of additional disk space in the process. Some systems don’t allow resharding while concurrently writing to the database, which makes it difficult to change the number of shards without downtime.
如果您发现最初配置的分片数量不正确——例如，如果您已经达到需要比现有分片更多节点的规模——那么就需要进行昂贵的重新分片操作。它需要拆分每个分片并将其写入新文件，在此过程中使用大量额外的磁盘空间。一些系统不允许在同时写入数据库时进行重新分片，这使得在不发生停机的情况下更改分片数量变得困难。

Choosing the right number of shards is difficult if the total size of the dataset is highly variable (for example, if it starts small but may grow much larger over time). Since each shard contains a fixed fraction of the total data, the size of each shard grows proportionally to the total amount of data in the cluster. If shards are very large, rebalancing and recovery from node failures become expensive. But if shards are too small, they incur too much overhead. The best performance is achieved when the size of shards is “just right,” neither too big nor too small, which can be hard to achieve if the number of shards is fixed but the dataset size varies.
选择合适的分片数量是困难的，特别是当数据集的总大小变化很大时（例如，数据集开始时很小，但可能会随着时间的推移变得更大）。由于每个分片包含总数据的固定比例，因此每个分片的大小会与集群中的总数据量成比例增长。如果分片非常大，重新平衡和从节点故障中恢复的成本会很高。但如果分片太小，则会产生过多的开销。最佳性能是在分片大小“恰到好处”时实现的，既不太大也不太小，但如果分片数量固定而数据集大小变化，这一点很难实现。

Sharding by hash range
按哈希范围分片

If the required number of shards can’t be predicted in advance, it’s better to use a scheme in which the number of shards can adapt easily to the workload. The aforementioned key-range sharding scheme has this property, but it has a risk of hot spots when there are a lot of writes to nearby keys. One solution is to combine key-range sharding with a hash function so that each shard contains a range of hash values rather than a range of keys.
如果所需的分片数量无法提前预测，最好使用一种能够轻松适应工作负载的分片方案。上述的键范围分片方案具有这一特性，但在对相邻键进行大量写入时存在热点风险。一种解决方案是将键范围分片与哈希函数结合，使每个分片包含一系列哈希值，而不是一系列键。

Figure 7-5 shows an example using a 16-bit hash function that returns a number between 0 and 65,535 = 216 − 1 (in reality, the hash is usually 32 bits or more). Even if the input keys are very similar (e.g., consecutive timestamps), their hashes are uniformly distributed across that range. We can then assign a range of hash values to each shard: for example, values between 0 and 16,383 to shard 0, values between 16,384 and 32,767 to shard 1, and so on.
图 7-5 展示了一个使用 16 位哈希函数的示例，该函数返回一个介于 0 和 65,535 之间的数字 = 2 16 − 1（实际上，哈希通常为 32 位或更高）。即使输入键非常相似（例如，连续的时间戳），它们的哈希值在该范围内也是均匀分布的。然后，我们可以为每个分片分配一系列哈希值：例如，将 0 到 16,383 的值分配给分片 0，将 16,384 到 32,767 的值分配给分片 1，依此类推。

ddia 0705
Figure 7-5. Assigning a contiguous range of hash values to each shard.
图 7-5. 为每个分片分配连续的哈希值范围。

Like with key-range sharding, a shard in hash-range sharding can be split when it becomes too big or too heavily loaded. This is still an expensive operation, but it can happen as needed, so the number of shards adapts to the volume of data rather than being fixed in advance.
与键范围分片类似，当哈希范围分片变得过大或负载过重时，可以对其进行拆分。这仍然是一个昂贵的操作，但可以根据需要进行，因此分片的数量会根据数据量的变化而调整，而不是事先固定。

The downside compared to key-range sharding is that range queries over the partition key are not efficient, as keys in the range are now scattered across all the shards. However, if keys consist of two or more columns, and the partition key is only the first of these columns, you can still perform efficient range queries over the second and later columns: as long as all records in the range query have the same partition key, they will be in the same shard.
与键范围分片相比，缺点在于对分区键的范围查询效率不高，因为范围内的键现在分散在所有分片中。然而，如果键由两列或更多列组成，并且分区键仅是这些列中的第一列，您仍然可以对第二列及后续列执行高效的范围查询：只要范围查询中的所有记录具有相同的分区键，它们就会在同一个分片中。

Partitioning and Range Queries in Data Warehouses
数据仓库中的分区和范围查询

Data warehouses such as BigQuery, Snowflake, and Delta Lake support a similar indexing approach, though the terminology differs. In BigQuery, for example, the partition key determines which partition a record resides in while “cluster columns” determine how records are sorted within the partition. Snowflake assigns records to “micro-partitions” automatically, but allows users to define cluster keys for a table. Delta Lake supports both manual and automatic partition assignment, and supports cluster keys. Clustering data not only improves range scan performance, but can improve compression and filtering performance as well.
像 BigQuery、Snowflake 和 Delta Lake 这样的数据仓库支持类似的索引方法，尽管术语有所不同。例如，在 BigQuery 中，分区键决定了记录所在的分区，而“集群列”决定了记录在分区内的排序方式。Snowflake 自动将记录分配到“微分区”，但允许用户为表定义集群键。Delta Lake 支持手动和自动分区分配，并支持集群键。对数据进行聚类不仅可以提高范围扫描性能，还可以改善压缩和过滤性能。

Hash-range sharding is used in YugabyteDB and DynamoDB [17], and is an option in MongoDB. Cassandra and ScyllaDB use a variant of this approach that is illustrated in Figure 7-6: the space of hash values is split into a number of ranges proportional to the number of nodes (3 ranges per node in Figure 7-6, but actual numbers are 8 per node in Cassandra by default, and 256 per node in ScyllaDB), with random boundaries between those ranges. This means some ranges are bigger than others, but by having multiple ranges per node those imbalances tend to even out [15, 18].
哈希范围分片在 YugabyteDB 和 DynamoDB 中使用[17]，并且在 MongoDB 中也是一个选项。Cassandra 和 ScyllaDB 使用这种方法的变体，如图 7-6 所示：哈希值的空间被分割成多个范围，范围的数量与节点的数量成比例（图 7-6 中每个节点 3 个范围，但 Cassandra 的默认值是每个节点 8 个，ScyllaDB 是每个节点 256 个），这些范围之间有随机边界。这意味着某些范围比其他范围大，但通过每个节点拥有多个范围，这些不平衡往往会得到平衡[15, 18]。

ddia 0706
Figure 7-6. Cassandra and ScyllaDB split the range of possible hash values (here 0–1023) into contiguous ranges with random boundaries, and assign several ranges to each node.
图 7-6. Cassandra 和 ScyllaDB 将可能的哈希值范围（这里是 0–1023）分割成具有随机边界的连续范围，并将多个范围分配给每个节点。

When nodes are added or removed, range boundaries are added and removed, and shards are split or merged accordingly [19]. In the example of Figure 7-6, when node 3 is added, node 1 transfers parts of two of its ranges to node 3, and node 2 transfers part of one of its ranges to node 3. This has the effect of giving the new node an approximately fair share of the dataset, without transferring more data than necessary from one node to another.
当节点被添加或移除时，范围边界也会相应地添加和移除，分片会相应地拆分或合并[19]。在图 7-6 的例子中，当节点 3 被添加时，节点 1 将其两个范围的一部分转移给节点 3，节点 2 将其一个范围的一部分转移给节点 3。这使得新节点获得了大致公平的数据集份额，而不需要从一个节点向另一个节点转移超过必要的数据。

Consistent hashing
一致性哈希

A consistent hashing algorithm is a hash function that maps keys to a specified number of shards in a way that satisfies two properties:
一致性哈希算法是一种哈希函数，它将键映射到指定数量的分片，满足两个属性：

the number of keys mapped to eash shard is roughly equal, and
映射到每个分片的键的数量大致相等，并且

when the number of shards changes, as few keys as possible are moved from one shard to another.
当分片数量发生变化时，尽可能少的键从一个分片移动到另一个分片。

Note that consistent here has nothing to do with replica consistency (see Chapter 6) or ACID consistency (see Chapter 8), but rather describes the tendency of a key to stay in the same shard as much as possible.
请注意，这里的“一致性”与副本一致性（见第 6 章）或 ACID 一致性（见第 8 章）无关，而是描述了一个键尽可能保持在同一分片中的倾向。

The sharding algorithm used by Cassandra and ScyllaDB is similar to the original definition of consistent hashing [20], but several other consistent hashing algorithms have also been proposed [21], such as highest random weight, also known as rendezvous hashing [22], and jump consistent hash [23]. With Cassandra’s algorithm, if one node is added, a small number of existing shards are split into sub-ranges; on the other hand, with rendezvous and jump consistent hashes, the new node is assigned individual keys that were previously scattered across all of the other nodes. Which one is preferable depends on the application.
Cassandra 和 ScyllaDB 使用的分片算法类似于一致性哈希的原始定义[20]，但也提出了其他几种一致性哈希算法[21]，例如最高随机权重，也称为会合哈希[rendezvous hashing][22]，以及跳跃一致性哈希[jump consistent hash][23]。在 Cassandra 的算法中，如果添加一个节点，少量现有分片会被拆分为子范围；另一方面，在会合哈希和跳跃一致性哈希中，新节点被分配到之前分散在所有其他节点上的单独键。哪个更可取取决于应用程序。

Skewed Workloads and Relieving Hot Spots
倾斜的工作负载和缓解热点

Consistent hashing ensures that keys are uniformly distributed across nodes, but that doesn’t mean that the actual load is uniformly distributed. If the workload is highly skewed—that is, the amount of data under some partition keys is much greater than other keys, or if the rate of requests to some keys is much higher than to others—you can still end up with some servers being overloaded while others sit almost idle.
一致性哈希确保键在节点之间均匀分布，但这并不意味着实际负载也均匀分布。如果工作负载高度倾斜——即某些分区键下的数据量远大于其他键，或者某些键的请求速率远高于其他键——你仍然可能会遇到一些服务器过载，而其他服务器几乎闲置的情况。

For example, on a social media site, a celebrity user with millions of followers may cause a storm of activity when they do something [24]. This event can result in a large volume of reads and writes to the same key (where the partition key is perhaps the user ID of the celebrity, or the ID of the action that people are commenting on).
例如，在一个社交媒体网站上，一位拥有数百万粉丝的名人用户在做某件事情时可能会引发一阵活动[ 24]。这个事件可能导致对同一个键的大量读写（其中分区键可能是名人的用户 ID，或者是人们评论的动作的 ID）。

In such situations, a more flexible sharding policy is required [25, 26]. A system that defines shards based on ranges of keys (or ranges of hashes) makes it possible to put an individual hot key in a shard by its own, and perhaps even assigning it a dedicated machine [27].
在这种情况下，需要更灵活的分片策略[ 25, 26]。一个基于键范围（或哈希范围）定义分片的系统使得可以将一个单独的热键放入一个分片中，甚至可能为其分配一台专用机器[ 27]。

It’s also possible to compensate for skew at the application level. For example, if one key is known to be very hot, a simple technique is to add a random number to the beginning or end of the key. Just a two-digit decimal random number would split the writes to the key evenly across 100 different keys, allowing those keys to be distributed to different shards.
在应用层面上也可以补偿倾斜。例如，如果一个键被认为是非常热门的，一个简单的技巧是在键的开头或结尾添加一个随机数字。仅仅是一个两位数的十进制随机数字就可以将对该键的写入均匀分配到 100 个不同的键上，从而允许这些键分布到不同的分片中。

However, having split the writes across different keys, any reads now have to do additional work, as they have to read the data from all 100 keys and combine it. The volume of reads to each shard of the hot key is not reduced; only the write load is split. This technique also requires additional bookkeeping: it only makes sense to append the random number for the small number of hot keys; for the vast majority of keys with low write throughput this would be unnecessary overhead. Thus, you also need some way of keeping track of which keys are being split, and a process for converting a regular key into a specially-managed hot key.
然而，既然写入已经分散到不同的键上，任何读取现在都需要额外的工作，因为它们必须从所有 100 个键中读取数据并进行合并。对热门键的每个分片的读取量并没有减少；只有写入负载被分散。这个技巧还需要额外的记账：仅对少量热门键附加随机数字是有意义的；对于绝大多数写入吞吐量低的键，这将是多余的开销。因此，您还需要某种方式来跟踪哪些键正在被分割，以及将常规键转换为特别管理的热门键的过程。

The problem is further compounded by change of load over time: for example, a particular social media post that has gone viral may experience high load for a couple of days, but thereafter it’s likely to calm down again. Moreover, some keys may be hot for writes while others are hot for reads, necessitating different strategies for handling them.
随着时间的推移，负载变化进一步加剧了这个问题：例如，一条特定的社交媒体帖子可能会在几天内经历高负载，但之后很可能会再次平静下来。此外，一些键在写入时可能会很热，而另一些在读取时则会很热，这就需要采用不同的策略来处理它们。

Some systems (especially cloud services designed for large scale) have automated approaches for dealing with hot shards; for example, Amazon calls it heat management [28] or adaptive capacity [17]. The details of how these systems work go beyond the scope of this book.
一些系统（特别是为大规模设计的云服务）有自动化的方法来处理热分片；例如，亚马逊称之为热管理 [ 28] 或自适应容量 [ 17]。这些系统的工作细节超出了本书的范围。

Operations: Automatic or Manual Rebalancing
操作：自动或手动重新平衡

There is one important question with regard to rebalancing that we have glossed over: does the splitting of shards and rebalancing happen automatically or manually?
关于重新平衡，有一个重要的问题我们尚未提及：分片和重新平衡是自动进行还是手动进行？

Some systems automatically decide when to split shards and when to move them from one node to another, without any human interaction, while others leave sharding to be explicitly configured by an administrator. There is also a middle ground: for example, Couchbase and Riak generate a suggested shard assignment automatically, but require an administrator to commit it before it takes effect.
一些系统会自动决定何时拆分分片以及何时将其从一个节点移动到另一个节点，而无需任何人工干预，而其他系统则将分片的配置留给管理员显式设置。还有一种折中方案：例如，Couchbase 和 Riak 会自动生成建议的分片分配，但需要管理员在生效之前进行确认。

Fully automated rebalancing can be convenient, because there is less operational work to do for normal maintenance, and such systems can even auto-scale to adapt to changes in workload. Cloud databases such as DynamoDB are promoted as being able to automatically add and remove shards to adapt to big increases or decreases of load within a matter of minutes [17, 29].
完全自动化的负载均衡可以很方便，因为正常维护的操作工作量较少，这样的系统甚至可以自动扩展以适应工作负载的变化。像 DynamoDB 这样的云数据库被宣传为能够在几分钟内自动添加和移除分片，以适应负载的大幅增加或减少 [ 17, 29]。

However, automatic shard management can also be unpredictable. Rebalancing is an expensive operation, because it requires rerouting requests and moving a large amount of data from one node to another. If it is not done carefully, this process can overload the network or the nodes, and it might harm the performance of other requests. The system must continue processing writes while the rebalancing is in progress; if a system is near its maximum write throughput, the shard-splitting process might not even be able to keep up with the rate of incoming writes [29].
然而，自动分片管理也可能是不可预测的。重新平衡是一项昂贵的操作，因为它需要重新路由请求并将大量数据从一个节点移动到另一个节点。如果不小心进行，这个过程可能会使网络或节点过载，并可能损害其他请求的性能。在重新平衡进行时，系统必须继续处理写入；如果系统接近其最大写入吞吐量，分片拆分过程甚至可能无法跟上进入写入的速度 [29]。

Such automation can be dangerous in combination with automatic failure detection. For example, say one node is overloaded and is temporarily slow to respond to requests. The other nodes conclude that the overloaded node is dead, and automatically rebalance the cluster to move load away from it. This puts additional load on other nodes and the network, making the situation worse. There is a risk of causing a cascading failure where other nodes become overloaded and are also falsely suspected of being down.
这种自动化与自动故障检测结合使用时可能是危险的。例如，假设一个节点过载并暂时响应请求缓慢。其他节点得出结论认为过载节点已经死掉，并自动重新平衡集群以将负载转移开。这给其他节点和网络带来了额外的负担，使情况变得更糟。存在导致级联故障的风险，其他节点也会过载，并被错误地怀疑为宕机。

For that reason, it can be a good thing to have a human in the loop for rebalancing. It’s slower than a fully automatic process, but it can help prevent operational surprises.
因此，在重新平衡时有一个人参与可能是件好事。这比完全自动化的过程要慢，但可以帮助防止操作上的意外。

Request Routing
请求路由

We have discussed how to shard a dataset across multiple nodes, and how to rebalance those shards as nodes are added or removed. Now let’s move on to the question: if you want to read or write a particular key, how do you know which node—i.e., which IP address and port number—you need to connect to?
我们已经讨论了如何在多个节点之间对数据集进行分片，以及如何在添加或移除节点时重新平衡这些分片。现在让我们继续讨论一个问题：如果你想读取或写入特定的键，你如何知道需要连接哪个节点——即哪个 IP 地址和端口号？

We call this problem request routing, and it’s very similar to service discovery, which we previously discussed in “Load balancers, service discovery, and service meshes”. The biggest difference between the two is that with services running application code, each instance is usually stateless, and a load balancer can send a request to any of the instances. With sharded databases, a request for a key can only be handled by a node that is a replica for the shard containing that key.
我们称这个问题为请求路由，它与我们之前在“负载均衡器、服务发现和服务网格”中讨论的服务发现非常相似。两者之间最大的区别在于，运行应用程序代码的服务通常是无状态的，负载均衡器可以将请求发送到任何实例。而对于分片数据库，针对某个键的请求只能由包含该键的分片的副本节点处理。

This means that request routing has to be aware of the assignment from keys to shards, and from shards to nodes. On a high level, there are a few different approaches to this problem (illustrated in Figure 7-7):
这意味着请求路由必须了解键到分片的分配，以及分片到节点的分配。从高层次来看，解决这个问题有几种不同的方法（如图 7-7 所示）：

Allow clients to contact any node (e.g., via a round-robin load balancer). If that node coincidentally owns the shard to which the request applies, it can handle the request directly; otherwise, it forwards the request to the appropriate node, receives the reply, and passes the reply along to the client.
允许客户端联系任何节点（例如，通过轮询负载均衡器）。如果该节点恰好拥有请求所适用的分片，它可以直接处理请求；否则，它将请求转发到适当的节点，接收回复，并将回复传递给客户端。

Send all requests from clients to a routing tier first, which determines the node that should handle each request and forwards it accordingly. This routing tier does not itself handle any requests; it only acts as a shard-aware load balancer.
首先将所有来自客户端的请求发送到路由层，该层确定应该处理每个请求的节点并相应地转发。该路由层本身不处理任何请求；它仅充当一个了解分片的负载均衡器。

Require that clients be aware of the sharding and the assignment of shards to nodes. In this case, a client can connect directly to the appropriate node, without any intermediary.
要求客户端了解分片及分片与节点的分配。在这种情况下，客户端可以直接连接到适当的节点，而无需任何中介。

ddia 0707
Figure 7-7. Three different ways of routing a request to the right node.
图 7-7. 将请求路由到正确节点的三种不同方式。

In all cases, there are some key problems:
在所有情况下，都存在一些关键问题：

Who decides which shard should live on which node? It’s simplest to have a single coordinator making that decision, but in that case how do you make it fault-tolerant in case the node running the coordinator goes down? And if the coordinator role can failover to another node, how do you prevent a split-brain situation (see “Handling Node Outages”) where two different coordinators make contradictory shard assignments?
谁来决定哪个分片应该驻留在哪个节点上？由一个单一的协调者来做这个决定是最简单的，但在这种情况下，如果运行协调者的节点出现故障，如何确保其容错性？如果协调者角色可以切换到另一个节点，如何防止出现脑裂情况（参见“处理节点故障”），即两个不同的协调者做出相互矛盾的分片分配？

How does the component performing the routing (which may be one of the nodes, or the routing tier, or the client) learn about changes in the assignment of shards to nodes?
执行路由的组件（可能是某个节点、路由层或客户端）如何得知分片到节点的分配变化？

While a shard is being moved from one node to another, there is a cutover period during which the new node has taken over, but requests to the old node may still be in flight. How do you handle those?
在一个分片从一个节点移动到另一个节点的过程中，会有一个切换期，此时新节点已经接管，但对旧节点的请求可能仍在进行中。你如何处理这些请求？

Many distributed data systems rely on a separate coordination service such as ZooKeeper or etcd to keep track of shard assignments, as illustrated in Figure 7-8. They use consensus algorithms (see [Link to Come]) to provide fault tolerance and protection against split-brain. Each node registers itself in ZooKeeper, and ZooKeeper maintains the authoritative mapping of shards to nodes. Other actors, such as the routing tier or the sharding-aware client, can subscribe to this information in ZooKeeper. Whenever a shard changes ownership, or a node is added or removed, ZooKeeper notifies the routing tier so that it can keep its routing information up to date.
许多分布式数据系统依赖于像 ZooKeeper 或 etcd 这样的独立协调服务来跟踪分片分配，如图 7-8 所示。它们使用共识算法（见[链接待补充]）来提供容错能力和防止脑裂的保护。每个节点在 ZooKeeper 中注册自己，ZooKeeper 维护着分片到节点的权威映射。其他参与者，如路由层或感知分片的客户端，可以订阅 ZooKeeper 中的这些信息。每当分片的所有权发生变化，或节点被添加或移除时，ZooKeeper 会通知路由层，以便它可以保持其路由信息的最新状态。

ddia 0708
Figure 7-8. Using ZooKeeper to keep track of assignment of shards to nodes.
图 7-8. 使用 ZooKeeper 跟踪分片到节点的分配。

For example, HBase and SolrCloud use ZooKeeper to manage shard assignment, and Kubernetes uses etcd to keep track of which service instance is running where. MongoDB has a similar architecture, but it relies on its own config server implementation and mongos daemons as the routing tier. Kafka, YugabyteDB, and TiDB use built-in implementations of the Raft consensus protocol to perform this coordination function.
例如，HBase 和 SolrCloud 使用 ZooKeeper 来管理分片分配，而 Kubernetes 使用 etcd 来跟踪哪个服务实例在何处运行。MongoDB 有类似的架构，但它依赖于自己的配置服务器实现和 mongos 守护进程作为路由层。Kafka、YugabyteDB 和 TiDB 使用 Raft 共识协议的内置实现来执行这一协调功能。

Cassandra, ScyllaDB, and Riak take a different approach: they use a gossip protocol among the nodes to disseminate any changes in cluster state. This provides much weaker consistency than a consensus protocol; it is possible to have split brain, in which different parts of the cluster have different node assignments for the same shard. Leaderless databases can tolerate this because they generally make weak consistency guarantees anyway (see “Limitations of Quorum Consistency”).
Cassandra、ScyllaDB 和 Riak 采取了不同的方法：它们在节点之间使用一种 gossip 协议来传播集群状态的任何变化。这提供的强一致性远不如共识协议；可能会出现分脑现象，即集群的不同部分对同一分片有不同的节点分配。无领导数据库可以容忍这种情况，因为它们通常提供的弱一致性保证（参见“法定一致性的局限性”）。

When using a routing tier or when sending requests to a random node, clients still need to find the IP addresses to connect to. These are not as fast-changing as the assignment of shards to nodes, so it is often sufficient to use DNS for this purpose.
在使用路由层或向随机节点发送请求时，客户端仍然需要找到要连接的 IP 地址。这些地址的变化没有分片到节点的分配那么快，因此通常使用 DNS 来满足这个目的就足够了。

This discussion of request routing has focused on finding the shard for an individual key, which is most relevant for sharded OLTP databases. Analytic databases often use sharding as well, but they typically have a very different kind of query execution: rather than executing in a single shard, a query typically needs to aggregate and join data from many different shards in parallel. We will discuss techniques for such parallel query execution in [Link to Come].
关于请求路由的讨论集中在为单个键找到分片，这对于分片的 OLTP 数据库最为相关。分析型数据库通常也使用分片，但它们的查询执行方式通常非常不同：查询通常需要并行地聚合和连接来自许多不同分片的数据，而不是在单个分片中执行。我们将在[Link to Come]中讨论这种并行查询执行的技术。

Sharding and Secondary Indexes
分片和二级索引

The sharding schemes we have discussed so far rely on the client knowing the partition key for any record it wants to access. This is most easily done in a key-value data model, where the partition key is the first part of the primary key (or the entire primary key), and so we can use the partition key to determine the shard, and thus route reads and writes to the node that is responsible for that key.
我们迄今讨论的分片方案依赖于客户端知道其想要访问的任何记录的分区键。这在键值数据模型中最容易实现，其中分区键是主键的第一部分（或整个主键），因此我们可以使用分区键来确定分片，从而将读写路由到负责该键的节点。

The situation becomes more complicated if secondary indexes are involved (see also “Multi-Column and Secondary Indexes”). A secondary index usually doesn’t identify a record uniquely but rather is a way of searching for occurrences of a particular value: find all actions by user 123, find all articles containing the word hogwash, find all cars whose color is red, and so on.
如果涉及到二级索引，情况会变得更加复杂（另见“多列和二级索引”）。二级索引通常并不能唯一标识一条记录，而是一种搜索特定值出现的方式：查找用户 123 的所有操作，查找包含单词 hogwash 的所有文章，查找颜色为 red 的所有汽车，等等。

Key-value stores often don’t have secondary indexes, but they are the bread and butter of relational databases, they are common in document databases too, and they are the raison d’être of full-text search engines such as Solr and Elasticsearch. The problem with secondary indexes is that they don’t map neatly to shards. There are two main approaches to sharding a database with secondary indexes: local and global indexes.
键值存储通常没有二级索引，但它们是关系数据库的基础，在文档数据库中也很常见，并且是全文搜索引擎（如 Solr 和 Elasticsearch）的存在理由。二级索引的问题在于它们无法与分片完美映射。对具有二级索引的数据库进行分片主要有两种方法：本地索引和全局索引。

Local Secondary Indexes
本地二级索引

For example, imagine you are operating a website for selling used cars (illustrated in Figure 7-9). Each listing has a unique ID, and you use that ID as partition key for sharding (for example, IDs 0 to 499 in shard 0, IDs 500 to 999 in shard 1, etc.).
例如，假设您正在运营一个出售二手车的网站（如图 7-9 所示）。每个列表都有一个唯一的 ID，您使用该 ID 作为分片的分区键（例如，ID 0 到 499 在分片 0 中，ID 500 到 999 在分片 1 中，等等）。

If you want to let users search for cars, allowing them to filter by color and by make, you need a secondary index on color and make (in a document database these would be fields; in a relational database they would be columns). If you have declared the index, the database can perform the indexing automatically. For example, whenever a red car is added to the database, the database shard automatically adds its ID to the list of IDs for the index entry color:red. As discussed in Chapter 4, that list of IDs is also called a postings list.
如果您想让用户搜索汽车，并允许他们按颜色和品牌进行筛选，您需要在 color 和 make 上创建一个辅助索引（在文档数据库中，这些将是字段；在关系数据库中，它们将是列）。如果您已经声明了索引，数据库可以自动执行索引。例如，每当一辆红色汽车被添加到数据库时，数据库分片会自动将其 ID 添加到索引条目 color:red 的 ID 列表中。如第 4 章所讨论的，该 ID 列表也称为发布列表。

ddia 0709
Figure 7-9. Local secondary indexes: each shard indexes only the records within its own shard.
图 7-9. 本地辅助索引：每个分片仅索引其自身分片内的记录。

Warning
警告

If your database only supports a key-value model, you might be tempted to implement a secondary index yourself by creating a mapping from values to IDs in application code. If you go down this route, you need to take great care to ensure your indexes remain consistent with the underlying data. Race conditions and intermittent write failures (where some changes were saved but others weren’t) can very easily cause the data to go out of sync—see “The need for multi-object transactions”.
如果您的数据库仅支持键值模型，您可能会想通过在应用程序代码中创建值到 ID 的映射来自己实现辅助索引。如果您选择这条路线，您需要非常小心，以确保您的索引与底层数据保持一致。竞争条件和间歇性写入失败（某些更改已保存但其他更改未保存）很容易导致数据不同步——请参见“多对象事务的必要性”。

In this indexing approach, each shard is completely separate: each shard maintains its own secondary indexes, covering only the records in that shard. It doesn’t care what data is stored in other shards. Whenever you write to the database—to add, remove, or update a records—you only need to deal with the shard that contains the record that you are writing. For that reason, this type of secondary index is known as a local index. In an information retrieval context it is also known as a document-partitioned index [30].
在这种索引方法中，每个分片是完全独立的：每个分片维护自己的二级索引，仅覆盖该分片中的记录。它不关心其他分片中存储的数据。每当你向数据库写入数据——添加、删除或更新记录时——你只需处理包含你正在写入的记录的分片。因此，这种类型的二级索引被称为本地索引。在信息检索的上下文中，它也被称为文档分区索引 [30]。

When reading from a local secondary index, if you already know the partition key of the record you’re looking for, you can just perform the search on the appropriate shard. Moreover, if you only want some results, and you don’t need all, you can send the request to any shard.
当从本地二级索引读取时，如果你已经知道要查找的记录的分区键，你可以直接在相应的分片上进行搜索。此外，如果你只想要一些结果，而不需要全部结果，你可以将请求发送到任何分片。

However, if you want all the results and don’t know their partition key in advance, you need to send the query to all shards, and combine the results you get back, because the matching records might be scattered across all the shards. In Figure 7-9, red cars appear in both shard 0 and shard 1.
然而，如果你想要所有结果并且事先不知道它们的分区键，你需要将查询发送到所有分片，并合并你收到的结果，因为匹配的记录可能分散在所有分片中。在图 7-9 中，红色汽车出现在分片 0 和分片 1 中。

This approach to querying a sharded database can make read queries on secondary indexes quite expensive. Even if you query the shards in parallel, it is prone to tail latency amplification (see “Use of Response Time Metrics”). It also limits the scalability of your application: adding more shards lets you store more data, but it doesn’t increase your query throughput if every shard has to process every query anyway.
这种对分片数据库的查询方法可能会使对辅助索引的读取查询变得相当昂贵。即使你并行查询分片，它也容易导致尾延迟放大（参见“响应时间指标的使用”）。这也限制了你应用程序的可扩展性：添加更多的分片可以让你存储更多的数据，但如果每个分片都必须处理每个查询，那么它并不会增加你的查询吞吐量。

Nevertheless, local secondary indexes are widely used [31]: for example, MongoDB, Riak, Cassandra [32], Elasticsearch [33], SolrCloud, and VoltDB [34] all use local secondary indexes.
然而，本地辅助索引被广泛使用 [31]：例如，MongoDB、Riak、Cassandra [32]、Elasticsearch [33]、SolrCloud 和 VoltDB [34] 都使用本地辅助索引。

Global Secondary Indexes
全局辅助索引

Rather than each shard having its own, local secondary index, we can construct a global index that covers data in all shards. However, we can’t just store that index on one node, since it would likely become a bottleneck and defeat the purpose of sharding. A global index must also be sharded, but it can be sharded differently from the primary key index.
与每个分片拥有自己的本地辅助索引不同，我们可以构建一个覆盖所有分片数据的全局索引。然而，我们不能仅仅将该索引存储在一个节点上，因为这可能会成为瓶颈，从而违背分片的目的。全局索引也必须进行分片，但它的分片方式可以与主键索引不同。

Figure 7-10 illustrates what this could look like: the IDs of red cars from all shards appear under color:red in the index, but the index is sharded so that colors starting with the letters a to r appear in shard 0 and colors starting with s to z appear in shard 1. The index on the make of car is partitioned similarly (with the shard boundary being between f and h).
图 7-10 展示了这可能是什么样子：所有分片中红色汽车的 ID 出现在索引的 color:red 下，但索引是分片的，因此以字母 a 到 r 开头的颜色出现在分片 0 中，而以字母 s 到 z 开头的颜色出现在分片 1 中。汽车品牌的索引也以类似方式进行分区（分片边界在 f 和 h 之间）。

ddia 0710
Figure 7-10. A global secondary index reflects data from all shards, and is itself sharded by the indexed value.
图 7-10. 全局二级索引反映了来自所有分片的数据，并且根据索引值本身进行分片。

This kind of index is also called term-partitioned [30]: recall from “Full-Text Search” that in full-text search, a term is a keyword in a text that you can search for. Here we generalise it to mean any value that you can search for in the secondary index.
这种类型的索引也称为术语分区[30]：回想一下“全文搜索”，在全文搜索中，术语是您可以搜索的文本中的关键字。在这里，我们将其推广为指您可以在二级索引中搜索的任何值。

The global index uses the term as partition key, so that when you’re looking for a particular term or value, you can figure out which shard you need to query. As before, a shard can contain a contiguous range of terms (as in Figure 7-10), or you can assign terms to shards based on a hash of the term.
全局索引使用术语作为分区键，因此当您寻找特定术语或值时，您可以确定需要查询哪个分片。与之前一样，一个分片可以包含一系列连续的术语（如图 7-10 所示），或者您可以根据术语的哈希值将术语分配给分片。

Global indexes have the advantage that a query with a single condition (such as color = red) only needs to read from a single shard to fetch the postings list. However, if you want to fetch records and not just IDs, you still have to read from all the shards that are responsible for those IDs.
全局索引的优点在于，带有单一条件的查询（例如，颜色 = 红色）只需从单个分片读取即可获取文档列表。然而，如果您想获取记录而不仅仅是 ID，您仍然需要从所有负责这些 ID 的分片中读取。

If you have multiple search conditions or terms (e.g., searching for cars of a certain color and a certain make, or searching for multiple words occurring in the same text), it’s likely that those terms will be assigned to different shards. To compute the logical AND of the two conditions, the system needs to find all the IDs that occur in both of the postings lists. That’s no problem if the postings lists are short, but if they are long, it can be slow to send them over the network to compute their intersection [30].
如果您有多个搜索条件或术语（例如，搜索某种颜色和某种品牌的汽车，或搜索在同一文本中出现的多个词），这些术语很可能会被分配到不同的分片。为了计算这两个条件的逻辑与，系统需要找到同时出现在两个文档列表中的所有 ID。如果文档列表较短，这没问题，但如果它们很长，发送它们以计算交集可能会很慢 [30]。

Another challenge with global secondary indexes is that writes are more complicated than with local indexes, because writing a single record might affect multiple shards of the index (every term in the document might be on a different shard). This makes it harder to keep the secondary index in sync with the underlying data. One option is to use a distributed transaction to atomically update the shards storing the primary record and its secondary indexes (see Chapter 8 and [Link to Come]).
另一个与全局二级索引相关的挑战是，写入操作比本地索引更复杂，因为写入单个记录可能会影响索引的多个分片（文档中的每个术语可能位于不同的分片上）。这使得保持二级索引与基础数据同步变得更加困难。一个选项是使用分布式事务原子性地更新存储主记录及其二级索引的分片（请参见第 8 章和[链接即将发布]）。

Global secondary indexes are used by CockroachDB, TiDB, and YugabyteDB; DynamoDB supports both local and global secondary indexes. In the case of DynamoDB, writes are asynchronously reflected in global indexes, so reads from a global index may be stale (similarly to replication lag, as in “Problems with Replication Lag”). Nevertheless, global indexes are useful if read throughput is higher than write throughput, and if the postings lists are not too long.
CockroachDB、TiDB 和 YugabyteDB 使用全局二级索引；DynamoDB 支持本地和全局二级索引。在 DynamoDB 的情况下，写入操作会异步反映在全局索引中，因此从全局索引读取的数据可能是过时的（类似于复制延迟，如“复制延迟的问题”中所述）。尽管如此，如果读取吞吐量高于写入吞吐量，并且发布列表不太长，全局索引仍然是有用的。

Summary
总结

In this chapter we explored different ways of sharding a large dataset into smaller subsets. Sharding is necessary when you have so much data that storing and processing it on a single machine is no longer feasible.
在本章中，我们探讨了将大型数据集分割成较小子集的不同方法。当数据量大到在单台机器上存储和处理变得不可行时，就需要进行分片。

The goal of sharding is to spread the data and query load evenly across multiple machines, avoiding hot spots (nodes with disproportionately high load). This requires choosing a sharding scheme that is appropriate to your data, and rebalancing the shards when nodes are added to or removed from the cluster.
分片的目标是将数据和查询负载均匀分布在多台机器上，避免热点（负载不成比例高的节点）。这需要选择适合您数据的分片方案，并在节点被添加到或从集群中移除时重新平衡分片。

We discussed two main approaches to sharding:
我们讨论了两种主要的分片方法：

Key range sharding, where keys are sorted, and a shard owns all the keys from some minimum up to some maximum. Sorting has the advantage that efficient range queries are possible, but there is a risk of hot spots if the application often accesses keys that are close together in the sorted order.
键范围分片，其中键被排序，一个分片拥有从某个最小值到某个最大值的所有键。排序的优点是可以进行高效的范围查询，但如果应用程序经常访问在排序顺序中相近的键，就存在热点的风险。

In this approach, shards are typically rebalanced by splitting the range into two subranges when a shard gets too big.
在这种方法中，当一个分片变得过大时，通常通过将范围分割成两个子范围来重新平衡分片。

Hash sharding, where a hash function is applied to each key, and a shard owns a range of hash values (or another consistent hashing algorithm may be used to map hashes to shards). This method destroys the ordering of keys, making range queries inefficient, but it may distribute load more evenly.
哈希分片，其中对每个键应用哈希函数，并且一个分片拥有一系列哈希值（或者可以使用其他一致性哈希算法将哈希映射到分片）。这种方法破坏了键的顺序，使得范围查询效率低下，但可能会更均匀地分配负载。

When sharding by hash, it is common to create a fixed number of shards in advance, to assign several shards to each node, and to move entire shards from one node to another when nodes are added or removed. Splitting shards, like with key ranges, is also possible.
当通过哈希进行分片时，通常会提前创建固定数量的分片，为每个节点分配几个分片，并在添加或移除节点时将整个分片从一个节点移动到另一个节点。像按键范围那样拆分分片也是可能的。

It is common to use the first part of the key as the partition key (i.e., to identify the shard), and to sort records within that shard by the rest of the key. That way you can still have efficient range queries among the records with the same partition key.
通常使用键的第一部分作为分区键（即识别分片），并根据其余的键对该分片内的记录进行排序。这样，您仍然可以在具有相同分区键的记录之间进行高效的范围查询。

We also discussed the interaction between sharding and secondary indexes. A secondary index also needs to be sharded, and there are two methods:
我们还讨论了分片与二级索引之间的相互作用。二级索引也需要进行分片，方法有两种：

Local secondary indexes, where the secondary indexes are stored in the same shard as the primary key and value. This means that only a single shard needs to be updated on write, but a lookup of the secondary index requires reading from all shards.
本地二级索引，其中二级索引与主键和值存储在同一个分片中。这意味着在写入时只需要更新一个分片，但查找二级索引时需要从所有分片中读取。

Global secondary indexes, which are sharded separately based on the indexed values. An entry in the secondary index may refer to records from all shards of the primary key. When a record is written, several secondary index shards may need to be updated; however, a read of the postings list can be served from a single shard (fetching the actual records still requires reading from multiple shards).
全局二级索引，基于索引值单独分片。二级索引中的一个条目可能引用主键的所有分片中的记录。当写入一条记录时，可能需要更新多个二级索引分片；然而，读取发布列表可以从单个分片提供（获取实际记录仍然需要从多个分片读取）。

Finally, we discussed techniques for routing queries to the appropriate shard, and how a coordination service is often used to keep track of the assigment of shards to nodes.
最后，我们讨论了将查询路由到适当分片的技术，以及协调服务如何常常用于跟踪分片与节点的分配。

By design, every shard operates mostly independently—that’s what allows a sharded database to scale to multiple machines. However, operations that need to write to several shards can be problematic: for example, what happens if the write to one shard succeeds, but another fails? We will address that question in the following chapters.
从设计上讲，每个分片大多独立运行——这使得分片数据库能够扩展到多个机器。然而，需要写入多个分片的操作可能会出现问题：例如，如果对一个分片的写入成功，但另一个失败，会发生什么？我们将在接下来的章节中解决这个问题。

Footnotes
脚注

References
参考文献

[1] Claire Giordano. Understanding partitioning and sharding in Postgres and Citus. citusdata.com, August 2023. Archived at perma.cc/8BTK-8959
[ 1] Claire Giordano. 理解 Postgres 和 Citus 中的分区和分片。citusdata.com，2023 年 8 月。存档于 perma.cc/8BTK-8959

[2] Brandur Leach. Partitioning in Postgres, 2022 edition. brandur.org, October 2022. Archived at perma.cc/Z5LE-6AKX
[ 2] Brandur Leach. Postgres 中的分区，2022 年版。brandur.org，2022 年 10 月。存档于 perma.cc/Z5LE-6AKX

[3] Raph Koster. Database “sharding” came from UO? raphkoster.com, January 2009. Archived at perma.cc/4N9U-5KYF
[ 3] Raph Koster. 数据库“分片”来自 UO？raphkoster.com，2009 年 1 月。存档于 perma.cc/4N9U-5KYF

[4] Garrett Fidalgo. Herding elephants: Lessons learned from sharding Postgres at Notion. notion.com, October 2021. Archived at perma.cc/5J5V-W2VX
[ 4] Garrett Fidalgo. 驯服大象：从 Notion 的 Postgres 分片中学到的经验教训。notion.com，2021 年 10 月。存档于 perma.cc/5J5V-W2VX

[5] Ulrich Drepper. What Every Programmer Should Know About Memory. akkadia.org, November 2007. Archived at perma.cc/NU6Q-DRXZ
[ 5] Ulrich Drepper. 每个程序员都应该知道的内存知识。akkadia.org，2007 年 11 月。存档于 perma.cc/NU6Q-DRXZ

[6] Jingyu Zhou, Meng Xu, Alexander Shraer, Bala Namasivayam, Alex Miller, Evan Tschannen, Steve Atherton, Andrew J. Beamon, Rusty Sears, John Leach, Dave Rosenthal, Xin Dong, Will Wilson, Ben Collins, David Scherer, Alec Grieser, Young Liu, Alvin Moore, Bhaskar Muppana, Xiaoge Su, and Vishesh Yadav. FoundationDB: A Distributed Unbundled Transactional Key Value Store. At ACM International Conference on Management of Data (SIGMOD), June 2021. doi:10.1145/3448016.3457559
[ 6] Jingyu Zhou, Meng Xu, Alexander Shraer, Bala Namasivayam, Alex Miller, Evan Tschannen, Steve Atherton, Andrew J. Beamon, Rusty Sears, John Leach, Dave Rosenthal, Xin Dong, Will Wilson, Ben Collins, David Scherer, Alec Grieser, Young Liu, Alvin Moore, Bhaskar Muppana, Xiaoge Su, 和 Vishesh Yadav. FoundationDB：一个分布式解耦的事务键值存储。在 ACM 国际数据管理会议（SIGMOD），2021 年 6 月。doi:10.1145/3448016.3457559

[7] Marco Slot. Citus 12: Schema-based sharding for PostgreSQL. citusdata.com, July 2023. Archived at perma.cc/R874-EC9W
[ 7] Marco Slot. Citus 12：基于模式的 PostgreSQL 分片。citusdata.com，2023 年 7 月。存档于 perma.cc/R874-EC9W

[8] Robisson Oliveira. Reducing the Scope of Impact with Cell-Based Architecture. AWS Well-Architected white paper, Amazon Web Services, September 2023. Archived at perma.cc/4KWW-47NR
[ 8] Robisson Oliveira. 通过基于单元的架构减少影响范围。AWS Well-Architected 白皮书，亚马逊网络服务，2023 年 9 月。存档于 perma.cc/4KWW-47NR

[9] Gwen Shapira. Things DBs Don’t Do - But Should. thenile.dev, February 2023. Archived at perma.cc/C3J4-JSFW
[ 9] Gwen Shapira. 数据库不做的事情 - 但应该做。thenile.dev，2023 年 2 月。存档于 perma.cc/C3J4-JSFW

[10] Malte Schwarzkopf, Eddie Kohler, M. Frans Kaashoek, and Robert Morris. Position: GDPR Compliance by Construction. At Towards Polystores that manage multiple Databases, Privacy, Security and/or Policy Issues for Heterogenous Data (Poly), August 2019. doi:10.1007/978-3-030-33752-0_3
[ 10] Malte Schwarzkopf, Eddie Kohler, M. Frans Kaashoek, 和 Robert Morris. 立场：通过构建实现 GDPR 合规。在《朝向管理多个数据库的多元存储，隐私、安全和/或异构数据的政策问题（Poly）》中，2019 年 8 月。doi:10.1007/978-3-030-33752-0_3

[11] Gwen Shapira. Introducing pg_karnak: Transactional schema migration across tenant databases. thenile.dev, November 2024. Archived at perma.cc/R5RD-8HR9
[ 11] Gwen Shapira. 介绍 pg_karnak：跨租户数据库的事务性模式迁移。thenile.dev，2024 年 11 月。存档于 perma.cc/R5RD-8HR9

[12] Arka Ganguli, Guido Iaquinti, Maggie Zhou, and Rafael Chacón. Scaling Datastores at Slack with Vitess. slack.engineering, December 2020. Archived at perma.cc/UW8F-ALJK
[ 12] Arka Ganguli, Guido Iaquinti, Maggie Zhou, 和 Rafael Chacón. 在 Slack 上使用 Vitess 扩展数据存储。slack.engineering，2020 年 12 月。存档于 perma.cc/UW8F-ALJK

[13] Ikai Lan. App Engine Datastore Tip: Monotonically Increasing Values Are Bad. ikaisays.com, January 2011. Archived at perma.cc/BPX8-RPJB
[ 13] Ikai Lan. App Engine Datastore 提示：单调递增的值是有害的。ikaisays.com，2011 年 1 月。存档于 perma.cc/BPX8-RPJB

[14] Enis Soztutar. Apache HBase Region Splitting and Merging. cloudera.com, February 2013. Archived at perma.cc/S9HS-2X2C
[ 14] Enis Soztutar. Apache HBase 区域拆分与合并。cloudera.com，2013 年 2 月。存档于 perma.cc/S9HS-2X2C

[15] Eric Evans. Rethinking Topology in Cassandra. At Cassandra Summit, June 2013. Archived at perma.cc/2DKM-F438
[ 15] Eric Evans. 在 Cassandra 中重新思考拓扑。Cassandra 峰会，2013 年 6 月。存档于 perma.cc/2DKM-F438

[16] Martin Kleppmann. Java’s hashCode Is Not Safe for Distributed Systems. martin.kleppmann.com, June 2012. Archived at perma.cc/LK5U-VZSN
[ 16] Martin Kleppmann. Java 的 hashCode 对分布式系统并不安全。martin.kleppmann.com，2012 年 6 月。存档于 perma.cc/LK5U-VZSN

[17] Mostafa Elhemali, Niall Gallagher, Nicholas Gordon, Joseph Idziorek, Richard Krog, Colin Lazier, Erben Mo, Akhilesh Mritunjai, Somu Perianayagam, Tim Rath, Swami Sivasubramanian, James Christopher Sorenson III, Sroaj Sosothikul, Doug Terry, and Akshat Vig. Amazon DynamoDB: A Scalable, Predictably Performant, and Fully Managed NoSQL Database Service. At USENIX Annual Technical Conference (ATC), July 2022.
[ 17] Mostafa Elhemali, Niall Gallagher, Nicholas Gordon, Joseph Idziorek, Richard Krog, Colin Lazier, Erben Mo, Akhilesh Mritunjai, Somu Perianayagam, Tim Rath, Swami Sivasubramanian, James Christopher Sorenson III, Sroaj Sosothikul, Doug Terry, 和 Akshat Vig. Amazon DynamoDB：一个可扩展、可预测性能且完全托管的 NoSQL 数据库服务。在 USENIX 年度技术会议 (ATC)，2022 年 7 月。

[18] Brandon Williams. Virtual Nodes in Cassandra 1.2. datastax.com, December 2012. Archived at perma.cc/N385-EQXV
[ 18] Brandon Williams. Cassandra 1.2 中的虚拟节点。datastax.com，2012 年 12 月。存档于 perma.cc/N385-EQXV

[19] Branimir Lambov. New Token Allocation Algorithm in Cassandra 3.0. datastax.com, January 2016. Archived at perma.cc/2BG7-LDWY
[ 19] Branimir Lambov. Cassandra 3.0 中的新令牌分配算法。datastax.com，2016 年 1 月。存档于 perma.cc/2BG7-LDWY

[20] David Karger, Eric Lehman, Tom Leighton, Rina Panigrahy, Matthew Levine, and Daniel Lewin. Consistent Hashing and Random Trees: Distributed Caching Protocols for Relieving Hot Spots on the World Wide Web. At 29th Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing (STOC), May 1997. doi:10.1145/258533.258660
[ 20] David Karger, Eric Lehman, Tom Leighton, Rina Panigrahy, Matthew Levine, 和 Daniel Lewin. 一致性哈希和随机树：用于缓解万维网热点的分布式缓存协议。在第 29 届 ACM 计算理论年会 (STOC)，1997 年 5 月。doi:10.1145/258533.258660

[21] Damian Gryski. Consistent Hashing: Algorithmic Tradeoffs. dgryski.medium.com, April 2018. Archived at perma.cc/B2WF-TYQ8
[ 21] Damian Gryski. 一致性哈希：算法权衡。dgryski.medium.com，2018 年 4 月。存档于 perma.cc/B2WF-TYQ8

[22] David G. Thaler and Chinya V. Ravishankar. Using name-based mappings to increase hit rates. IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking, volume 6, issue 1, pages 1–14, February 1998. doi:10.1109/90.663936
[ 22] David G. Thaler 和 Chinya V. Ravishankar. 使用基于名称的映射来提高命中率. IEEE/ACM 网络通信交易, 第 6 卷, 第 1 期, 第 1–14 页, 1998 年 2 月. doi:10.1109/90.663936

[23] John Lamping and Eric Veach. A Fast, Minimal Memory, Consistent Hash Algorithm. arxiv.org, June 2014.
[ 23] John Lamping 和 Eric Veach. 一种快速、最小内存、一致的哈希算法. arxiv.org, 2014 年 6 月.

[24] Samuel Axon. 3% of Twitter’s Servers Dedicated to Justin Bieber. mashable.com, September 2010. Archived at perma.cc/F35N-CGVX
[ 24] Samuel Axon. 3%的 Twitter 服务器专用于贾斯汀·比伯. mashable.com, 2010 年 9 月. 存档于 perma.cc/F35N-CGVX

[25] Gerald Guo and Thawan Kooburat. Scaling services with Shard Manager. engineering.fb.com, August 2020. Archived at perma.cc/EFS3-XQYT
[ 25] Gerald Guo 和 Thawan Kooburat. 使用 Shard Manager 扩展服务. engineering.fb.com, 2020 年 8 月. 存档于 perma.cc/EFS3-XQYT

[26] Sangmin Lee, Zhenhua Guo, Omer Sunercan, Jun Ying, Thawan Kooburat, Suryadeep Biswal, Jun Chen, Kun Huang, Yatpang Cheung, Yiding Zhou, Kaushik Veeraraghavan, Biren Damani, Pol Mauri Ruiz, Vikas Mehta, and Chunqiang Tang. Shard Manager: A Generic Shard Management Framework for Geo-distributed Applications. 28th ACM SIGOPS Symposium on Operating Systems Principles (SOSP), pages 553–569, October 2021. doi:10.1145/3477132.3483546
[ 26] Sangmin Lee, Zhenhua Guo, Omer Sunercan, Jun Ying, Thawan Kooburat, Suryadeep Biswal, Jun Chen, Kun Huang, Yatpang Cheung, Yiding Zhou, Kaushik Veeraraghavan, Biren Damani, Pol Mauri Ruiz, Vikas Mehta, 和 Chunqiang Tang. Shard Manager: 一种用于地理分布应用的通用分片管理框架. 第 28 届 ACM SIGOPS 操作系统原理研讨会 (SOSP), 页码 553–569, 2021 年 10 月. doi:10.1145/3477132.3483546

[27] Scott Lystig Fritchie. A Critique of Resizable Hash Tables: Riak Core & Random Slicing. infoq.com, August 2018. Archived at perma.cc/RPX7-7BLN
[ 27] Scott Lystig Fritchie. 对可调整大小哈希表的批评：Riak Core 和随机切片。infoq.com，2018 年 8 月。存档于 perma.cc/RPX7-7BLN

[28] Andy Warfield. Building and operating a pretty big storage system called S3. allthingsdistributed.com, July 2023. Archived at perma.cc/6S7P-GLM4
[ 28] Andy Warfield. 构建和运营一个叫 S3 的相当大的存储系统。allthingsdistributed.com，2023 年 7 月。存档于 perma.cc/6S7P-GLM4

[29] Rich Houlihan. DynamoDB adaptive capacity: smooth performance for chaotic workloads (DAT327). At AWS re:Invent, November 2017.
[ 29] Rich Houlihan. DynamoDB 自适应容量：为混乱工作负载提供平稳性能 (DAT327)。在 AWS re:Invent，2017 年 11 月。

[30] Christopher D. Manning, Prabhakar Raghavan, and Hinrich Schütze. Introduction to Information Retrieval. Cambridge University Press, 2008. ISBN: 978-0-521-86571-5, available online at nlp.stanford.edu/IR-book
[ 30] Christopher D. Manning, Prabhakar Raghavan 和 Hinrich Schütze. 信息检索导论。剑桥大学出版社，2008 年。ISBN: 978-0-521-86571-5，在线可用地址 nlp.stanford.edu/IR-book

[31] Michael Busch, Krishna Gade, Brian Larson, Patrick Lok, Samuel Luckenbill, and Jimmy Lin. Earlybird: Real-Time Search at Twitter. At 28th IEEE International Conference on Data Engineering (ICDE), April 2012. doi:10.1109/ICDE.2012.149
[ 31] Michael Busch, Krishna Gade, Brian Larson, Patrick Lok, Samuel Luckenbill, 和 Jimmy Lin. Earlybird: Twitter 上的实时搜索. 发表在第 28 届 IEEE 国际数据工程会议（ICDE），2012 年 4 月. doi:10.1109/ICDE.2012.149

[32] Nadav Har’El. Indexing in Cassandra 3. github.com, April 2017. Archived at perma.cc/3ENV-8T9P
[ 32] Nadav Har’El. Cassandra 3 中的索引. github.com, 2017 年 4 月. 存档于 perma.cc/3ENV-8T9P

[33] Zachary Tong. Customizing Your Document Routing. elastic.co, June 2013. Archived at perma.cc/97VM-MREN
[ 33] Zachary Tong. 自定义您的文档路由. elastic.co, 2013 年 6 月. 存档于 perma.cc/97VM-MREN

[34] Andrew Pavlo. H-Store Frequently Asked Questions. hstore.cs.brown.edu, October 2013. Archived at perma.cc/X3ZA-DW6Z
[ 34] Andrew Pavlo. H-Store 常见问题解答. hstore.cs.brown.edu, 2013 年 10 月. 存档于 perma.cc/X3ZA-DW6Z
