Chapter 8. Transactions
第八章 事务

Some authors have claimed that general two-phase commit is too expensive to support, because of the performance or availability problems that it brings. We believe it is better to have application programmers deal with performance problems due to overuse of transactions as bottlenecks arise, rather than always coding around the lack of transactions.
一些作者声称，一般的两阶段提交支持成本过高，因为它带来的性能或可用性问题。我们认为，让应用程序开发人员处理由于事务过度使用而导致的性能问题更为合适，而不是总是围绕缺乏事务进行编码。

James Corbett et al., Spanner: Google’s Globally-Distributed Database (2012)
James Corbett 等，Spanner：谷歌的全球分布式数据库（2012）

A Note for Early Release Readers
给提前发布读者的说明

With Early Release ebooks, you get books in their earliest form—the author’s raw and unedited content as they write—so you can take advantage of these technologies long before the official release of these titles.
通过早期发布的电子书，您可以获得书籍的最初形式——作者在写作时的原始和未编辑内容——因此您可以在这些书籍正式发布之前就利用这些技术。

This will be the 8th chapter of the final book. The GitHub repo for this book is https://github.com/ept/ddia2-feedback.
这将是最终书籍的第八章。该书的 GitHub 仓库是 https://github.com/ept/ddia2-feedback。

If you have comments about how we might improve the content and/or examples in this book, or if you notice missing material within this chapter, please reach out on GitHub.
如果您对我们如何改进本书的内容和/或示例有任何意见，或者如果您在本章中发现缺失的材料，请在 GitHub 上与我们联系。

In the harsh reality of data systems, many things can go wrong:
在数据系统的严酷现实中，许多事情可能会出错：

The database software or hardware may fail at any time (including in the middle of a write operation).
数据库软件或硬件可能会在任何时候发生故障（包括在写操作的中间）。

The application may crash at any time (including halfway through a series of operations).
应用程序可能随时崩溃（包括在一系列操作进行到一半时）。

Interruptions in the network can unexpectedly cut off the application from the database, or one database node from another.
网络中的中断可能会意外地将应用程序与数据库断开连接，或者将一个数据库节点与另一个节点断开连接。

Several clients may write to the database at the same time, overwriting each other’s changes.
多个客户端可能会同时写入数据库，互相覆盖对方的更改。

A client may read data that doesn’t make sense because it has only partially been updated.
客户端可能会读取到不合理的数据，因为数据仅部分更新。

Race conditions between clients can cause surprising bugs.
客户端之间的竞争条件可能会导致意想不到的错误。

In order to be reliable, a system has to deal with these faults and ensure that they don’t cause catastrophic failure of the entire system. However, implementing fault-tolerance mechanisms is a lot of work. It requires a lot of careful thinking about all the things that can go wrong, and a lot of testing to ensure that the solution actually works.
为了可靠，系统必须处理这些故障，并确保它们不会导致整个系统的灾难性失败。然而，实现容错机制需要大量的工作。这需要仔细考虑所有可能出错的情况，并进行大量测试以确保解决方案确实有效。

For decades, transactions have been the mechanism of choice for simplifying these issues. A transaction is a way for an application to group several reads and writes together into a logical unit. Conceptually, all the reads and writes in a transaction are executed as one operation: either the entire transaction succeeds (commit) or it fails (abort, rollback). If it fails, the application can safely retry. With transactions, error handling becomes much simpler for an application, because it doesn’t need to worry about partial failure—i.e., the case where some operations succeed and some fail (for whatever reason).
几十年来，事务一直是简化这些问题的首选机制。事务是应用程序将多个读写操作组合成一个逻辑单元的一种方式。从概念上讲，事务中的所有读写操作作为一个操作执行：要么整个事务成功（提交），要么失败（中止，回滚）。如果失败，应用程序可以安全地重试。通过事务，错误处理对应用程序变得简单得多，因为它不需要担心部分失败——即某些操作成功而某些操作失败（无论出于何种原因）的情况。

If you have spent years working with transactions, they may seem obvious, but we shouldn’t take them for granted. Transactions are not a law of nature; they were created with a purpose, namely to simplify the programming model for applications accessing a database. By using transactions, the application is free to ignore certain potential error scenarios and concurrency issues, because the database takes care of them instead (we call these safety guarantees).
如果你花了多年时间处理事务，它们可能看起来很显而易见，但我们不应该理所当然地对待它们。事务并不是自然法则；它们是出于某种目的而创建的，即简化访问数据库的应用程序的编程模型。通过使用事务，应用程序可以忽略某些潜在的错误场景和并发问题，因为数据库会处理这些问题（我们称之为安全保证）。

Not every application needs transactions, and sometimes there are advantages to weakening transactional guarantees or abandoning them entirely (for example, to achieve higher performance or higher availability). Some safety properties can be achieved without transactions. On the other hand, transactions can prevent a lot of grief: for example, the technical cause behind the Post Office Horizon scandal (see “How Important Is Reliability?”) was probably a lack of ACID transactions in the underlying accounting system [1].
并不是每个应用程序都需要事务，有时削弱事务保证或完全放弃它们会有优势（例如，为了实现更高的性能或更高的可用性）。某些安全属性可以在没有事务的情况下实现。另一方面，事务可以防止很多麻烦：例如，邮政局地平线丑闻背后的技术原因（见“可靠性有多重要？”）可能是底层会计系统缺乏 ACID 事务 [1]。

How do you figure out whether you need transactions? In order to answer that question, we first need to understand exactly what safety guarantees transactions can provide, and what costs are associated with them. Although transactions seem straightforward at first glance, there are actually many subtle but important details that come into play.
你如何判断是否需要事务？为了回答这个问题，我们首先需要确切理解事务可以提供哪些安全保障，以及与之相关的成本。尽管事务乍一看似乎很简单，但实际上有许多微妙但重要的细节需要考虑。

In this chapter, we will examine many examples of things that can go wrong, and explore the algorithms that databases use to guard against those issues. We will go especially deep in the area of concurrency control, discussing various kinds of race conditions that can occur and how databases implement isolation levels such as read committed, snapshot isolation, and serializability.
在本章中，我们将检查许多可能出错的例子，并探讨数据库用来防范这些问题的算法。我们将特别深入讨论并发控制领域，讨论可能发生的各种竞争条件，以及数据库如何实现如已提交读、快照隔离和可串行化等隔离级别。

This chapter applies to both single-node and distributed databases; in [Link to Come] we will focus the discussion on the particular challenges that arise only in distributed systems.
本章适用于单节点和分布式数据库；在[链接即将到来]中，我们将重点讨论仅在分布式系统中出现的特定挑战。

What Exactly Is a Transaction?
什么是事务？

Almost all relational databases today, and some nonrelational databases, support transactions. Most of them follow the style that was introduced in 1975 by IBM System R, the first SQL database [2, 3, 4]. Although some implementation details have changed, the general idea has remained virtually the same for 50 years: the transaction support in MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle, SQL Server, etc., is uncannily similar to that of System R.
几乎所有现代关系数据库，以及一些非关系数据库，都支持事务。它们中的大多数遵循 1975 年 IBM System R 首次引入的风格，这是第一个 SQL 数据库[2, 3, 4]。尽管一些实现细节发生了变化，但一般思想在过去 50 年中几乎保持不变：MySQL、PostgreSQL、Oracle、SQL Server 等的事务支持与 System R 的事务支持惊人地相似。

In the late 2000s, nonrelational (NoSQL) databases started gaining popularity. They aimed to improve upon the relational status quo by offering a choice of new data models (see Chapter 3), and by including replication (Chapter 6) and sharding (Chapter 7) by default. Transactions were the main casualty of this movement: many of this generation of databases abandoned transactions entirely, or redefined the word to describe a much weaker set of guarantees than had previously been understood.
在 2000 年代后期，非关系（NoSQL）数据库开始流行。它们旨在通过提供新的数据模型选择（见第 3 章），并默认包含复制（第 6 章）和分片（第 7 章），来改善关系数据库的现状。事务是这一运动的主要牺牲品：这一代数据库中的许多完全放弃了事务，或者重新定义了这个词，以描述比以前理解的要弱得多的保证集。

The hype around NoSQL distributed databases led to a popular belief that transactions were fundamentally unscalable, and that any large-scale system would have to abandon transactions in order to maintain good performance and high availability. More recently, that belief has turned out to be wrong. So-called “NewSQL” databases such as CockroachDB [5], TiDB [6], Spanner [7], FoundationDB [8], and Yugabyte have shown that transactional systems can scale to large data volumes and high throughput. These systems combine sharding with consensus protocols ([Link to Come]) to provide strong ACID guarantees at scale.
围绕 NoSQL 分布式数据库的炒作导致了一个普遍的看法，即事务在根本上是不可扩展的，任何大规模系统都必须放弃事务以维持良好的性能和高可用性。最近，这一看法被证明是错误的。所谓的“NewSQL”数据库，如 CockroachDB [ 5]、TiDB [ 6]、Spanner [ 7]、FoundationDB [ 8]和 Yugabyte，已经证明事务系统可以扩展到大数据量和高吞吐量。这些系统结合了分片和共识协议（[链接即将发布]），在大规模下提供强大的 ACID 保证。

However, that doesn’t mean that every system must be transactional either: like every other technical design choice, transactions have advantages and limitations. In order to understand those trade-offs, let’s go into the details of the guarantees that transactions can provide—both in normal operation and in various extreme (but realistic) circumstances.
然而，这并不意味着每个系统都必须是事务性的：与其他技术设计选择一样，事务也有其优点和局限性。为了理解这些权衡，让我们深入探讨事务可以提供的保证——无论是在正常操作中还是在各种极端（但现实的）情况下。

The Meaning of ACID
ACID 的含义

The safety guarantees provided by transactions are often described by the well-known acronym ACID, which stands for Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, and Durability. It was coined in 1983 by Theo Härder and Andreas Reuter [9] in an effort to establish precise terminology for fault-tolerance mechanisms in databases.
事务提供的安全保证通常用著名的首字母缩略词 ACID 来描述，代表原子性、一致性、隔离性和持久性。这个术语是由 Theo Härder 和 Andreas Reuter 于 1983 年创造的，旨在为数据库中的容错机制建立精确的术语。

However, in practice, one database’s implementation of ACID does not equal another’s implementation. For example, as we shall see, there is a lot of ambiguity around the meaning of isolation [10]. The high-level idea is sound, but the devil is in the details. Today, when a system claims to be “ACID compliant,” it’s unclear what guarantees you can actually expect. ACID has unfortunately become mostly a marketing term.
然而，在实践中，一个数据库对 ACID 的实现并不等同于另一个数据库的实现。例如，正如我们将看到的，关于隔离性的含义存在很多模糊之处。这个高层次的概念是合理的，但细节中隐藏着问题。如今，当一个系统声称“符合 ACID”时，实际上你可以期待什么样的保证并不明确。遗憾的是，ACID 大多已成为一个营销术语。

(Systems that do not meet the ACID criteria are sometimes called BASE, which stands for Basically Available, Soft state, and Eventual consistency [11]. This is even more vague than the definition of ACID. It seems that the only sensible definition of BASE is “not ACID”; i.e., it can mean almost anything you want.)
（不符合 ACID 标准的系统有时被称为 BASE，代表基本可用、软状态和最终一致性。这比 ACID 的定义更模糊。似乎 BASE 唯一合理的定义就是“不是 ACID”；也就是说，它几乎可以意味着你想要的任何东西。）

Let’s dig into the definitions of atomicity, consistency, isolation, and durability, as this will let us refine our idea of transactions.
让我们深入探讨原子性、一致性、隔离性和持久性的定义，因为这将使我们能够细化对事务的理解。

Atomicity
原子性

In general, atomic refers to something that cannot be broken down into smaller parts. The word means similar but subtly different things in different branches of computing. For example, in multi-threaded programming, if one thread executes an atomic operation, that means there is no way that another thread could see the half-finished result of the operation. The system can only be in the state it was before the operation or after the operation, not something in between.
一般来说，原子性指的是无法被分解为更小部分的事物。这个词在计算机的不同领域中意味着相似但又略有不同的东西。例如，在多线程编程中，如果一个线程执行了一个原子操作，这意味着另一个线程无法看到该操作的半成品结果。系统只能处于操作之前的状态或操作之后的状态，而不是介于两者之间的状态。

By contrast, in the context of ACID, atomicity is not about concurrency. It does not describe what happens if several processes try to access the same data at the same time, because that is covered under the letter I, for isolation (see “Isolation”).
相比之下，在 ACID 的上下文中，原子性并不是关于并发的。它并不描述如果多个进程同时尝试访问相同数据会发生什么，因为这属于字母 I，即隔离（见“隔离”）。

Rather, ACID atomicity describes what happens if a client wants to make several writes, but a fault occurs after some of the writes have been processed—for example, a process crashes, a network connection is interrupted, a disk becomes full, or some integrity constraint is violated. If the writes are grouped together into an atomic transaction, and the transaction cannot be completed (committed) due to a fault, then the transaction is aborted and the database must discard or undo any writes it has made so far in that transaction.
相反，ACID 原子性描述的是如果客户端想要进行多次写入，但在某些写入处理后发生故障的情况——例如，进程崩溃、网络连接中断、磁盘满了或某些完整性约束被违反。如果这些写入被组合成一个原子事务，并且由于故障无法完成（提交）该事务，那么该事务将被中止，数据库必须丢弃或撤销在该事务中迄今为止所做的任何写入。

Without atomicity, if an error occurs partway through making multiple changes, it’s difficult to know which changes have taken effect and which haven’t. The application could try again, but that risks making the same change twice, leading to duplicate or incorrect data. Atomicity simplifies this problem: if a transaction was aborted, the application can be sure that it didn’t change anything, so it can safely be retried.
没有原子性，如果在进行多个更改的过程中发生错误，就很难知道哪些更改已经生效，哪些尚未生效。应用程序可以尝试重新执行，但这有可能导致相同的更改被执行两次，从而导致重复或不正确的数据。原子性简化了这个问题：如果一个事务被中止，应用程序可以确信它没有更改任何内容，因此可以安全地重试。

The ability to abort a transaction on error and have all writes from that transaction discarded is the defining feature of ACID atomicity. Perhaps abortability would have been a better term than atomicity, but we will stick with atomicity since that’s the usual word.
在发生错误时中止事务并丢弃该事务的所有写入是 ACID 原子性的定义特征。也许“可中止性”这个词比“原子性”更合适，但我们将坚持使用“原子性”，因为这是通常使用的词。

Consistency
一致性

The word consistency is terribly overloaded:
“一致性”这个词的含义非常复杂：

In Chapter 6 we discussed replica consistency and the issue of eventual consistency that arises in asynchronously replicated systems (see “Problems with Replication Lag”).
在第 6 章中，我们讨论了副本一致性以及在异步复制系统中出现的最终一致性问题（参见“复制延迟的问题”）。

A consistent snapshot of a database, e.g. for a backup, is a snapshot of the entire database as it existed at one moment in time. More precisely, it is consistent with the happens-before relation (see “The “happens-before” relation and concurrency”): that is, if the snapshot contains a value that was written at a particular time, then it also reflects all the writes that happened before that value was written.
数据库的一致快照，例如用于备份，是在某一时刻数据库的完整快照。更准确地说，它与发生在之前的关系一致（参见“发生在之前的关系和并发”）：也就是说，如果快照包含在特定时间写入的值，那么它也反映了在该值写入之前发生的所有写入。

Consistent hashing is an approach to sharding that some systems use for rebalancing (see “Consistent hashing”).
一致性哈希是一种分片方法，一些系统使用它来进行负载均衡（见“一致性哈希”）。

In the CAP theorem (see [Link to Come]), the word consistency is used to mean linearizability (see [Link to Come]).
在 CAP 定理中（见[链接待补充]），一致性一词用于表示线性化（见[链接待补充]）。

In the context of ACID, consistency refers to an application-specific notion of the database being in a “good state.”
在 ACID 的上下文中，一致性指的是数据库处于“良好状态”的应用特定概念。

It’s unfortunate that the same word is used with at least five different meanings.
不幸的是，同一个词至少有五种不同的含义。

The idea of ACID consistency is that you have certain statements about your data (invariants) that must always be true—for example, in an accounting system, credits and debits across all accounts must always be balanced. If a transaction starts with a database that is valid according to these invariants, and any writes during the transaction preserve the validity, then you can be sure that the invariants are always satisfied. (An invariant may be temporarily violated during transaction execution, but it should be satisfied again at transaction commit.)
ACID 一致性的理念是，你对数据有某些必须始终为真的陈述（不变式）——例如，在一个会计系统中，所有账户的贷方和借方必须始终保持平衡。如果一个事务以一个根据这些不变式有效的数据库开始，并且在事务期间的任何写入都保持有效性，那么你可以确保不变式始终得到满足。（在事务执行期间，不变式可能会暂时被违反，但在事务提交时应该再次得到满足。）

If you want the database to enforce your invariants, you need to declare them as constraints as part of the schema. For example, foreign key constraints, uniqueness constraints, or check constraints (which restrict the values that can appear in an individual row) are often used to model specific types of invariants. More complex consistency requirements can sometimes be modeled using triggers or materialized views [12].
如果你希望数据库强制执行你的不变式，你需要将它们声明为模式的一部分约束。例如，外键约束、唯一性约束或检查约束（限制可以出现在单个行中的值）通常用于建模特定类型的不变式。更复杂的一致性要求有时可以通过触发器或物化视图来建模 [ 12]。

However, complex invariants can be difficult or impossible to model using the constraints that databases usually provide. In that case, it’s the application’s responsibility to define its transactions correctly so that they preserve consistency. If you write bad data that violates your invariants, but you haven’t declared those invariants, the database can’t stop you. As such, the C in ACID often depends on how the application uses the database, and it’s not a property of the database alone.
然而，复杂的不变式可能很难或不可能使用数据库通常提供的约束来建模。在这种情况下，应用程序有责任正确地定义其事务，以确保它们保持一致性。如果你写入了违反不变式的错误数据，但你没有声明这些不变式，数据库无法阻止你。因此，ACID 中的 C 往往取决于应用程序如何使用数据库，而不仅仅是数据库本身的属性。

Isolation
隔离性

Most databases are accessed by several clients at the same time. That is no problem if they are reading and writing different parts of the database, but if they are accessing the same database records, you can run into concurrency problems (race conditions).
大多数数据库同时被多个客户端访问。如果它们读取和写入数据库的不同部分，这没有问题，但如果它们访问相同的数据库记录，就可能会遇到并发问题（竞争条件）。

Figure 8-1 is a simple example of this kind of problem. Say you have two clients simultaneously incrementing a counter that is stored in a database. Each client needs to read the current value, add 1, and write the new value back (assuming there is no increment operation built into the database). In Figure 8-1 the counter should have increased from 42 to 44, because two increments happened, but it actually only went to 43 because of the race condition.
图 8-1 是这种问题的一个简单示例。假设你有两个客户端同时在一个数据库中递增一个计数器。每个客户端需要读取当前值，加 1，然后将新值写回（假设数据库中没有内置的递增操作）。在图 8-1 中，计数器应该从 42 增加到 44，因为发生了两个递增，但实际上只增加到了 43，这是由于竞争条件造成的。

Isolation in the sense of ACID means that concurrently executing transactions are isolated from each other: they cannot step on each other’s toes. The classic database textbooks formalize isolation as serializability, which means that each transaction can pretend that it is the only transaction running on the entire database. The database ensures that when the transactions have committed, the result is the same as if they had run serially (one after another), even though in reality they may have run concurrently [13].
ACID 中的隔离意味着并发执行的事务彼此隔离：它们不能相互干扰。经典的数据库教科书将隔离形式化为可串行性，这意味着每个事务可以假装它是唯一在整个数据库上运行的事务。数据库确保当事务提交时，结果与它们串行运行（一个接一个）时的结果相同，即使在实际情况中它们可能是并发运行的[13]。

ddia 0801
Figure 8-1. A race condition between two clients concurrently incrementing a counter.
图 8-1. 两个客户端并发递增计数器之间的竞争条件。

However, serializability has a performance cost. In practice, many databases use forms of isolation that are weaker than serializability: that is, they allow concurrent transactions to interfere with each other in limited ways. Some popular databases, such as Oracle, don’t even implement it (Oracle has an isolation level called “serializable,” but it actually implements snapshot isolation, which is a weaker guarantee than serializability [10, 14]). This means that some kinds of race conditions can still occur. We will explore snapshot isolation and other forms of isolation in “Weak Isolation Levels”.
然而，串行化具有性能成本。在实践中，许多数据库使用的隔离形式比串行化要弱：也就是说，它们允许并发事务以有限的方式相互干扰。一些流行的数据库，如 Oracle，甚至不实现它（Oracle 有一个称为“可串行化”的隔离级别，但它实际上实现的是快照隔离，这比串行化提供的保证要弱 [10, 14]）。这意味着某些类型的竞争条件仍然可能发生。我们将在“弱隔离级别”中探讨快照隔离和其他形式的隔离。

Durability
持久性

The purpose of a database system is to provide a safe place where data can be stored without fear of losing it. Durability is the promise that once a transaction has committed successfully, any data it has written will not be forgotten, even if there is a hardware fault or the database crashes.
数据库系统的目的是提供一个安全的地方，以便数据可以存储而不必担心丢失。持久性是指一旦事务成功提交，它所写入的任何数据都不会被遗忘，即使发生硬件故障或数据库崩溃。

In a single-node database, durability typically means that the data has been written to nonvolatile storage such as a hard drive or SSD. Regular file writes are usually buffered in memory before being sent to the disk sometime later, which means they would be lost if there is a sudden power failure; many databases therefore use the fsync() system call to ensure the data really has been written to disk. Databases usually also have a write-ahead log or similar (see “Making B-trees reliable”), which allows them to recover in the event that a crash occurs part way through a write.
在单节点数据库中，持久性通常意味着数据已被写入非易失性存储，如硬盘或 SSD。常规文件写入通常在发送到磁盘之前会缓存在内存中，这意味着如果发生突然的电源故障，这些数据将会丢失；因此，许多数据库使用 fsync() 系统调用来确保数据确实已写入磁盘。数据库通常还具有写前日志或类似机制（参见“使 B 树可靠”），这使它们能够在写入过程中发生崩溃时进行恢复。

In a replicated database, durability may mean that the data has been successfully copied to some number of nodes. In order to provide a durability guarantee, a database must wait until these writes or replications are complete before reporting a transaction as successfully committed. However, as discussed in “Reliability and Fault Tolerance”, perfect durability does not exist: if all your hard disks and all your backups are destroyed at the same time, there’s obviously nothing your database can do to save you.
在复制数据库中，持久性可能意味着数据已成功复制到一定数量的节点。为了提供持久性保证，数据库必须等到这些写入或复制完成后，才能将事务报告为成功提交。然而，正如在“可靠性和容错性”中讨论的那样，完美的持久性是不存在的：如果所有硬盘和所有备份同时被销毁，显然数据库无法为您提供任何保护。

Replication and Durability
复制与持久性

Historically, durability meant writing to an archive tape. Then it was understood as writing to a disk or SSD. More recently, it has been adapted to mean replication. Which implementation is better?
历史上，持久性意味着写入归档磁带。后来被理解为写入磁盘或 SSD。最近，它被调整为意味着复制。哪种实现更好？

The truth is, nothing is perfect:
事实是，没有什么是完美的：

If you write to disk and the machine dies, even though your data isn’t lost, it is inaccessible until you either fix the machine or transfer the disk to another machine. Replicated systems can remain available.
如果你写入磁盘而机器崩溃，即使你的数据没有丢失，但在你修复机器或将磁盘转移到另一台机器之前，它是无法访问的。复制系统可以保持可用。

A correlated fault—a power outage or a bug that crashes every node on a particular input—​can knock out all replicas at once (see “Reliability and Fault Tolerance”), losing any data that is only in memory. Writing to disk is therefore still relevant for replicated databases.
相关故障——如停电或导致特定输入下每个节点崩溃的 bug——可以同时使所有副本失效（见“可靠性和容错”），从而丢失仅在内存中的任何数据。因此，写入磁盘对于复制数据库仍然是相关的。

In an asynchronously replicated system, recent writes may be lost when the leader becomes unavailable (see “Handling Node Outages”).
在异步复制系统中，当领导者不可用时，最近的写入可能会丢失（参见“处理节点故障”）。

When the power is suddenly cut, SSDs in particular have been shown to sometimes violate the guarantees they are supposed to provide: even fsync isn’t guaranteed to work correctly [15]. Disk firmware can have bugs, just like any other kind of software [16, 17], e.g. causing drives to fail after exactly 32,768 hours of operation [18]. And fsync is hard to use; even PostgreSQL used it incorrectly for over 20 years [19, 20, 21].
当电源突然中断时，特别是 SSD 有时会违反它们应该提供的保证：甚至 fsync 也不能保证正常工作[15]。磁盘固件可能会有 bug，就像其他任何类型的软件一样[16, 17]，例如，导致驱动器在运行 32,768 小时后恰好失败[18]。而且 fsync 使用起来很困难；即使是 PostgreSQL 也错误地使用了它超过 20 年[19, 20, 21]。

Subtle interactions between the storage engine and the filesystem implementation can lead to bugs that are hard to track down, and may cause files on disk to be corrupted after a crash [22, 23]. Filesystem errors on one replica can sometimes spread to other replicas as well [24].
存储引擎与文件系统实现之间的微妙交互可能导致难以追踪的 bug，并可能导致磁盘上的文件在崩溃后被损坏[22, 23]。一个副本上的文件系统错误有时也会传播到其他副本[24]。

Data on disk can gradually become corrupted without this being detected [25]. If data has been corrupted for some time, replicas and recent backups may also be corrupted. In this case, you will need to try to restore the data from a historical backup.
磁盘上的数据可能会逐渐变得损坏而未被检测到[25]。如果数据已经损坏了一段时间，副本和最近的备份也可能会被损坏。在这种情况下，您需要尝试从历史备份中恢复数据。

One study of SSDs found that between 30% and 80% of drives develop at least one bad block during the first four years of operation, and only some of these can be corrected by the firmware [26]. Magnetic hard drives have a lower rate of bad sectors, but a higher rate of complete failure than SSDs.
一项关于 SSD 的研究发现，在前四年的使用过程中，30%到 80%的驱动器会出现至少一个坏块，而这些坏块中只有一部分可以通过固件修复 [26]。磁盘硬盘的坏扇区发生率较低，但完全故障的发生率高于 SSD。

When a worn-out SSD (that has gone through many write/erase cycles) is disconnected from power, it can start losing data within a timescale of weeks to months, depending on the temperature [27]. This is less of a problem for drives with lower wear levels [28].
当一个磨损严重的 SSD（经历了多次写入/擦除循环）断电时，它可能会在几周到几个月的时间内开始丢失数据，这取决于温度 [27]。对于磨损程度较低的驱动器，这个问题较小 [28]。

In practice, there is no one technique that can provide absolute guarantees. There are only various risk-reduction techniques, including writing to disk, replicating to remote machines, and backups—​and they can and should be used together. As always, it’s wise to take any theoretical “guarantees” with a healthy grain of salt.
在实际操作中，没有一种技术可以提供绝对的保证。只有各种风险降低技术，包括写入磁盘、复制到远程机器和备份——它们可以并且应该一起使用。像往常一样，对任何理论上的“保证”保持适度的怀疑是明智的。

Single-Object and Multi-Object Operations
单对象和多对象操作

To recap, in ACID, atomicity and isolation describe what the database should do if a client makes several writes within the same transaction:
回顾一下，在 ACID 中，原子性和隔离性描述了如果客户端在同一事务中进行多次写入，数据库应该如何处理：

Atomicity
原子性
If an error occurs halfway through a sequence of writes, the transaction should be aborted, and the writes made up to that point should be discarded. In other words, the database saves you from having to worry about partial failure, by giving an all-or-nothing guarantee.
如果在一系列写入的过程中发生错误，事务应该被中止，并且到那时为止的写入应该被丢弃。换句话说，数据库让你不必担心部分失败，因为它提供了全有或全无的保证。

Isolation
隔离性
Concurrently running transactions shouldn’t interfere with each other. For example, if one transaction makes several writes, then another transaction should see either all or none of those writes, but not some subset.
并发运行的事务不应相互干扰。例如，如果一个事务进行了多次写入，那么另一个事务应该看到这些写入的全部或没有，而不是某个子集。

These definitions assume that you want to modify several objects (rows, documents, records) at once. Such multi-object transactions are often needed if several pieces of data need to be kept in sync. Figure 8-2 shows an example from an email application. To display the number of unread messages for a user, you could query something like:
这些定义假设您希望一次修改多个对象（行、文档、记录）。如果需要保持多个数据片段同步，则通常需要这种多对象事务。图 8-2 展示了一个来自电子邮件应用的示例。为了显示用户的未读消息数量，您可以查询类似于以下内容：

SELECT COUNT(\*) FROM emails WHERE recipient_id = 2 AND unread_flag = true
ddia 0802
Figure 8-2. Violating isolation: one transaction reads another transaction’s uncommitted writes (a “dirty read”).
图 8-2. 违反隔离性：一个事务读取另一个事务的未提交写入（“脏读”）。

However, you might find this query to be too slow if there are many emails, and decide to store the number of unread messages in a separate field (a kind of denormalization, which we discuss in “Normalization, Denormalization, and Joins”). Now, whenever a new message comes in, you have to increment the unread counter as well, and whenever a message is marked as read, you also have to decrement the unread counter.
然而，如果邮件数量很多，您可能会发现这个查询太慢，并决定将未读消息的数量存储在一个单独的字段中（这是一种反规范化，我们在“规范化、反规范化和连接”中讨论）。现在，每当有新消息到达时，您还必须增加未读计数器，每当一条消息被标记为已读时，您也必须减少未读计数器。

In Figure 8-2, user 2 experiences an anomaly: the mailbox listing shows an unread message, but the counter shows zero unread messages because the counter increment has not yet happened. (If an incorrect counter in an email application seems too insignificant, think of a customer account balance instead of an unread counter, and a payment transaction instead of an email.) Isolation would have prevented this issue by ensuring that user 2 sees either both the inserted email and the updated counter, or neither, but not an inconsistent halfway point.
在图 8-2 中，用户 2 遇到了一个异常：邮箱列表显示有一封未读消息，但计数器显示未读消息为零，因为计数器的增量尚未发生。（如果电子邮件应用中的错误计数器看起来微不足道，可以考虑客户账户余额而不是未读计数器，以及支付交易而不是电子邮件。）隔离可以防止这个问题，确保用户 2 要么看到插入的电子邮件和更新的计数器，要么都看不到，而不是处于不一致的中间状态。

Figure 8-3 illustrates the need for atomicity: if an error occurs somewhere over the course of the transaction, the contents of the mailbox and the unread counter might become out of sync. In an atomic transaction, if the update to the counter fails, the transaction is aborted and the inserted email is rolled back.
图 8-3 说明了原子性的重要性：如果在交易过程中某个地方发生错误，邮箱的内容和未读计数器可能会不同步。在原子交易中，如果计数器的更新失败，交易将被中止，插入的电子邮件将被回滚。

ddia 0803
Figure 8-3. Atomicity ensures that if an error occurs any prior writes from that transaction are undone, to avoid an inconsistent state.
图 8-3. 原子性确保如果发生错误，来自该交易的任何先前写入都会被撤销，以避免不一致状态。

Multi-object transactions require some way of determining which read and write operations belong to the same transaction. In relational databases, that is typically done based on the client’s TCP connection to the database server: on any particular connection, everything between a BEGIN TRANSACTION and a COMMIT statement is considered to be part of the same transaction. If the TCP connection is interrupted, the transaction must be aborted.
多对象事务需要某种方式来确定哪些读写操作属于同一事务。在关系数据库中，通常是基于客户端与数据库服务器的 TCP 连接来完成的：在任何特定连接上，位于 BEGIN TRANSACTION 和 COMMIT 语句之间的所有内容都被视为同一事务的一部分。如果 TCP 连接中断，则必须中止该事务。

On the other hand, many nonrelational databases don’t have such a way of grouping operations together. Even if there is a multi-object API (for example, a key-value store may have a multi-put operation that updates several keys in one operation), that doesn’t necessarily mean it has transaction semantics: the command may succeed for some keys and fail for others, leaving the database in a partially updated state.
另一方面，许多非关系数据库没有将操作分组在一起的方式。即使存在多对象 API（例如，键值存储可能有一个多写操作，可以在一次操作中更新多个键），这也不一定意味着它具有事务语义：该命令可能对某些键成功而对其他键失败，从而使数据库处于部分更新状态。

Single-object writes
单对象写入

Atomicity and isolation also apply when a single object is being changed. For example, imagine you are writing a 20 KB JSON document to a database:
原子性和隔离性在更改单个对象时也适用。例如，假设您正在将一个 20 KB 的 JSON 文档写入数据库：

If the network connection is interrupted after the first 10 KB have been sent, does the database store that unparseable 10 KB fragment of JSON?
如果在发送完前 10 KB 后网络连接中断，数据库会存储那段无法解析的 10 KB JSON 片段吗？

If the power fails while the database is in the middle of overwriting the previous value on disk, do you end up with the old and new values spliced together?
如果在数据库正在覆盖磁盘上先前值的过程中电源故障，最终会得到旧值和新值拼接在一起吗？

If another client reads that document while the write is in progress, will it see a partially updated value?
如果另一个客户端在写入过程中读取该文档，它会看到部分更新的值吗？

Those issues would be incredibly confusing, so storage engines almost universally aim to provide atomicity and isolation on the level of a single object (such as a key-value pair) on one node. Atomicity can be implemented using a log for crash recovery (see “Making B-trees reliable”), and isolation can be implemented using a lock on each object (allowing only one thread to access an object at any one time).
这些问题会非常令人困惑，因此存储引擎几乎普遍旨在提供单个对象（例如键值对）在一个节点上的原子性和隔离性。原子性可以通过日志实现以进行崩溃恢复（参见“使 B 树可靠”），而隔离性可以通过对每个对象加锁来实现（允许在任何时刻只有一个线程访问一个对象）。

Some databases also provide more complex atomic operations, such as an increment operation, which removes the need for a read-modify-write cycle like that in Figure 8-1. Similarly popular is a conditional write operation, which allows a write to happen only if the value has not been concurrently changed by someone else (see “Conditional writes (compare-and-swap)”), similarly to a compare-and-swap (CAS) operation in shared-memory concurrency.
一些数据库还提供更复杂的原子操作，例如增量操作，这消除了像图 8-1 中那样的读-修改-写周期的需要。同样受欢迎的是条件写入操作，它允许写入仅在值未被其他人同时更改的情况下发生（参见“条件写入（比较并交换）”），这类似于共享内存并发中的比较并交换（CAS）操作。

Note
注意

Strictly speaking, the term atomic increment uses the word atomic in the sense of multi-threaded programming. In the context of ACID, it should actually be called an isolated or serializable increment, but that’s not the usual term.
严格来说，术语原子增量在多线程编程的意义上使用了“原子”这个词。在 ACID 的上下文中，它实际上应该被称为隔离增量或可序列化增量，但这并不是通常的术语。

These single-object operations are useful, as they can prevent lost updates when several clients try to write to the same object concurrently (see “Preventing Lost Updates”). However, they are not transactions in the usual sense of the word. For example, the “lightweight transactions” feature of Cassandra and ScyllaDB, and Aerospike’s “strong consistency” mode offer linearizable (see [Link to Come]) reads and conditional writes on a single object, but no guarantees across multiple objects.
这些单对象操作是有用的，因为它们可以防止多个客户端同时尝试写入同一对象时发生的更新丢失（参见“防止更新丢失”）。然而，它们并不是通常意义上的事务。例如，Cassandra 和 ScyllaDB 的“轻量级事务”功能，以及 Aerospike 的“强一致性”模式，提供了对单个对象的线性化（参见[链接即将到来]）读取和条件写入，但对多个对象没有保证。

The need for multi-object transactions
多对象事务的需求

Do we need multi-object transactions at all? Would it be possible to implement any application with only a key-value data model and single-object operations?
我们真的需要多对象事务吗？仅仅使用键值数据模型和单对象操作是否可以实现任何应用程序？

There are some use cases in which single-object inserts, updates, and deletes are sufficient. However, in many other cases writes to several different objects need to be coordinated:
在某些用例中，单个对象的插入、更新和删除是足够的。然而，在许多其他情况下，对多个不同对象的写入需要进行协调：

In a relational data model, a row in one table often has a foreign key reference to a row in another table. Similarly, in a graph-like data model, a vertex has edges to other vertices. Multi-object transactions allow you to ensure that these references remain valid: when inserting several records that refer to one another, the foreign keys have to be correct and up to date, or the data becomes nonsensical.
在关系数据模型中，一个表中的行通常有一个外键引用指向另一个表中的行。同样，在图形数据模型中，一个顶点与其他顶点之间有边。多对象事务允许您确保这些引用保持有效：在插入相互引用的多个记录时，外键必须正确且最新，否则数据将变得毫无意义。

In a document data model, the fields that need to be updated together are often within the same document, which is treated as a single object—no multi-object transactions are needed when updating a single document. However, document databases lacking join functionality also encourage denormalization (see “When to Use Which Model”). When denormalized information needs to be updated, like in the example of Figure 8-2, you need to update several documents in one go. Transactions are very useful in this situation to prevent denormalized data from going out of sync.
在文档数据模型中，需要一起更新的字段通常在同一个文档内，该文档被视为一个单一对象——在更新单个文档时不需要多对象事务。然而，缺乏连接功能的文档数据库也鼓励去规范化（参见“何时使用哪种模型”）。当去规范化的信息需要更新时，如图 8-2 中的示例，您需要一次性更新多个文档。在这种情况下，事务非常有用，以防止去规范化的数据不同步。

In databases with secondary indexes (almost everything except pure key-value stores), the indexes also need to be updated every time you change a value. These indexes are different database objects from a transaction point of view: for example, without transaction isolation, it’s possible for a record to appear in one index but not another, because the update to the second index hasn’t happened yet (see “Sharding and Secondary Indexes”).
在具有二级索引的数据库中（几乎所有的数据库，除了纯键值存储），每次更改值时，索引也需要更新。这些索引从事务的角度来看是不同的数据库对象：例如，在没有事务隔离的情况下，可能会出现某个记录在一个索引中存在而在另一个索引中不存在的情况，因为对第二个索引的更新尚未发生（参见“分片和二级索引”）。

Such applications can still be implemented without transactions. However, error handling becomes much more complicated without atomicity, and the lack of isolation can cause concurrency problems. We will discuss those in “Weak Isolation Levels”, and explore alternative approaches in [Link to Come].
这样的应用程序仍然可以在没有事务的情况下实现。然而，没有原子性时，错误处理变得复杂得多，缺乏隔离可能会导致并发问题。我们将在“弱隔离级别”中讨论这些问题，并在[链接即将到来]中探索替代方法。

Handling errors and aborts
处理错误和中止

A key feature of a transaction is that it can be aborted and safely retried if an error occurred. ACID databases are based on this philosophy: if the database is in danger of violating its guarantee of atomicity, isolation, or durability, it would rather abandon the transaction entirely than allow it to remain half-finished.
事务的一个关键特性是，如果发生错误，它可以被中止并安全地重试。ACID 数据库基于这一理念：如果数据库面临违反原子性、隔离性或持久性的保证的风险，它宁愿完全放弃事务，也不允许事务处于半完成状态。

Not all systems follow that philosophy, though. In particular, datastores with leaderless replication (see “Leaderless Replication”) work much more on a “best effort” basis, which could be summarized as “the database will do as much as it can, and if it runs into an error, it won’t undo something it has already done”—so it’s the application’s responsibility to recover from errors.
并不是所有系统都遵循这种理念。特别是，采用无领导复制的数据库存储（见“无领导复制”）在很大程度上是基于“尽力而为”的原则，可以总结为“数据库会尽其所能，如果遇到错误，它不会撤销已经完成的操作”——因此，恢复错误的责任在于应用程序。

Errors will inevitably happen, but many software developers prefer to think only about the happy path rather than the intricacies of error handling. For example, popular object-relational mapping (ORM) frameworks such as Rails’s ActiveRecord and Django don’t retry aborted transactions—the error usually results in an exception bubbling up the stack, so any user input is thrown away and the user gets an error message. This is a shame, because the whole point of aborts is to enable safe retries.
错误不可避免地会发生，但许多软件开发人员更倾向于只关注顺利的路径，而不是错误处理的复杂性。例如，流行的对象关系映射（ORM）框架，如 Rails 的 ActiveRecord 和 Django，并不会重试中止的事务——错误通常会导致异常向上冒泡，因此任何用户输入都会被丢弃，用户会收到错误消息。这很遗憾，因为中止的整个意义在于能够安全地重试。

Although retrying an aborted transaction is a simple and effective error handling mechanism, it isn’t perfect:
尽管重试中止的事务是一种简单有效的错误处理机制，但它并不完美：

If the transaction actually succeeded, but the network was interrupted while the server tried to acknowledge the successful commit to the client (so it timed out from the client’s point of view), then retrying the transaction causes it to be performed twice—unless you have an additional application-level deduplication mechanism in place.
如果事务实际上成功了，但在服务器尝试向客户端确认成功提交时网络中断（因此从客户端的角度来看超时），那么重试该事务会导致其被执行两次——除非您有额外的应用层去重机制。

If the error is due to overload or high contention between concurrent transactions, retrying the transaction will make the problem worse, not better. To avoid such feedback cycles, you can limit the number of retries, use exponential backoff, and handle overload-related errors differently from other errors (see “When an overloaded system won’t recover”).
如果错误是由于过载或并发事务之间的高争用引起的，重试事务只会使问题变得更糟，而不是更好。为了避免这种反馈循环，您可以限制重试次数，使用指数退避，并将与过载相关的错误与其他错误区别处理（参见“当过载系统无法恢复时”）。

It is only worth retrying after transient errors (for example due to deadlock, isolation violation, temporary network interruptions, and failover); after a permanent error (e.g., constraint violation) a retry would be pointless.
只有在瞬态错误（例如死锁、隔离违规、临时网络中断和故障转移）之后重试才是值得的；在永久性错误（例如约束违规）之后，重试将毫无意义。

If the transaction also has side effects outside of the database, those side effects may happen even if the transaction is aborted. For example, if you’re sending an email, you wouldn’t want to send the email again every time you retry the transaction. If you want to make sure that several different systems either commit or abort together, two-phase commit can help (we will discuss this in [Link to Come]).
如果事务在数据库外还有副作用，即使事务被中止，这些副作用也可能发生。例如，如果您正在发送电子邮件，您不希望在每次重试事务时都重新发送电子邮件。如果您想确保多个不同的系统要么一起提交，要么一起中止，二阶段提交可以提供帮助（我们将在[链接待发布]中讨论这个问题）。

If the client process crashes while retrying, any data it was trying to write to the database is lost.
如果客户端进程在重试时崩溃，它试图写入数据库的任何数据都会丢失。

Weak Isolation Levels
弱隔离级别

If two transactions don’t access the same data, or if both are read-only, they can safely be run in parallel, because neither depends on the other. Concurrency issues (race conditions) only come into play when one transaction reads data that is concurrently modified by another transaction, or when the two transactions try to modify the same data.
如果两个事务不访问相同的数据，或者如果两个事务都是只读的，它们可以安全地并行运行，因为它们彼此之间没有依赖关系。并发问题（竞争条件）仅在一个事务读取被另一个事务同时修改的数据，或者当两个事务试图修改相同的数据时才会出现。

Concurrency bugs are hard to find by testing, because such bugs are only triggered when you get unlucky with the timing. Such timing issues might occur very rarely, and are usually difficult to reproduce. Concurrency is also very difficult to reason about, especially in a large application where you don’t necessarily know which other pieces of code are accessing the database. Application development is difficult enough if you just have one user at a time; having many concurrent users makes it much harder still, because any piece of data could unexpectedly change at any time.
并发错误很难通过测试发现，因为这些错误只有在时机不佳时才会被触发。这种时机问题可能非常罕见，并且通常难以重现。并发问题也很难推理，尤其是在大型应用程序中，你不一定知道哪些其他代码片段正在访问数据库。如果一次只有一个用户，应用程序开发已经够困难了；而有多个并发用户则更难，因为任何数据在任何时候都可能意外改变。

For that reason, databases have long tried to hide concurrency issues from application developers by providing transaction isolation. In theory, isolation should make your life easier by letting you pretend that no concurrency is happening: serializable isolation means that the database guarantees that transactions have the same effect as if they ran serially (i.e., one at a time, without any concurrency).
因此，数据库长期以来一直试图通过提供事务隔离来隐藏应用程序开发者面临的并发问题。理论上，隔离应该让你的生活更轻松，因为它让你可以假装没有发生并发：可串行化隔离意味着数据库保证事务的效果就像是串行执行（即一次一个，没有任何并发）。

In practice, isolation is unfortunately not that simple. Serializable isolation has a performance cost, and many databases don’t want to pay that price [10]. It’s therefore common for systems to use weaker levels of isolation, which protect against some concurrency issues, but not all. Those levels of isolation are much harder to understand, and they can lead to subtle bugs, but they are nevertheless used in practice [29].
在实践中，隔离 unfortunately 并不是那么简单。可串行化隔离有性能成本，许多数据库不愿意支付这个代价 [10]。因此，系统通常使用较弱的隔离级别，这些级别可以防止某些并发问题，但并不是所有问题。这些隔离级别更难以理解，并且可能导致微妙的错误，但它们在实践中仍然被使用 [29]。

Concurrency bugs caused by weak transaction isolation are not just a theoretical problem. They have caused substantial loss of money [30, 31, 32], led to investigation by financial auditors [33], and caused customer data to be corrupted [34]. A popular comment on revelations of such problems is “Use an ACID database if you’re handling financial data!”—but that misses the point. Even many popular relational database systems (which are usually considered “ACID”) use weak isolation, so they wouldn’t necessarily have prevented these bugs from occurring.
由于弱事务隔离引起的并发错误不仅仅是一个理论问题。它们造成了巨大的经济损失 [30, 31, 32]，导致财务审计人员的调查 [33]，并导致客户数据被损坏 [34]。关于此类问题的流行评论是“如果你处理财务数据，请使用 ACID 数据库！”——但这忽略了关键点。即使是许多流行的关系数据库系统（通常被认为是“ACID”）也使用弱隔离，因此它们并不一定能防止这些错误的发生。

Note
注意

Incidentally, much of the banking system relies on text files that are exchanged via secure FTP [35]. In this context, having an audit trail and some human-level fraud prevention measures is actually more important than ACID properties.
顺便提一下，许多银行系统依赖于通过安全 FTP 交换的文本文件 [35]。在这种情况下，拥有审计跟踪和一些人类级别的欺诈预防措施实际上比 ACID 属性更为重要。

Those examples also highlight an important point: even if concurrency issues are rare in normal operation, you have to consider the possibility that an attacker deliberately sends a burst of highly concurrent requests to your API in an attempt to deliberately exploit concurrency bugs [30]. Therefore, in order to build applications that are reliable and secure, you have to ensure that such bugs are systematically prevented.
这些例子还强调了一个重要观点：即使在正常操作中并发问题很少见，您也必须考虑攻击者故意向您的 API 发送大量高度并发请求以试图故意利用并发漏洞的可能性 [30]。因此，为了构建可靠和安全的应用程序，您必须确保系统性地防止此类漏洞。

In this section we will look at several weak (nonserializable) isolation levels that are used in practice, and discuss in detail what kinds of race conditions can and cannot occur, so that you can decide what level is appropriate to your application. Once we’ve done that, we will discuss serializability in detail (see “Serializability”). Our discussion of isolation levels will be informal, using examples. If you want rigorous definitions and analyses of their properties, you can find them in the academic literature [36, 37, 38, 39].
在本节中，我们将查看几种在实践中使用的弱（非可串行化）隔离级别，并详细讨论可能和不可能发生的竞争条件，以便您可以决定哪个级别适合您的应用程序。一旦我们完成了这一点，我们将详细讨论可串行性（见“可串行性”）。我们对隔离级别的讨论将是非正式的，使用示例。如果您想要严格的定义和属性分析，可以在学术文献中找到它们 [ 36, 37, 38, 39 ]。

Read Committed
已提交读取

The most basic level of transaction isolation is read committed. It makes two guarantees:
事务隔离的最基本级别是已提交读。它提供了两个保证：

When reading from the database, you will only see data that has been committed (no dirty reads).
在从数据库读取时，您只会看到已提交的数据（没有脏读）。

When writing to the database, you will only overwrite data that has been committed (no dirty writes).
在向数据库写入时，您只会覆盖已提交的数据（没有脏写）。

Some databases support an even weaker isolation level called read uncommitted. It prevents dirty writes, but does not prevent dirty reads. Let’s discuss these two guarantees in more detail.
一些数据库支持一种更弱的隔离级别，称为未提交读。它防止脏写，但不防止脏读。让我们更详细地讨论这两个保证。

No dirty reads
没有脏读

Imagine a transaction has written some data to the database, but the transaction has not yet committed or aborted. Can another transaction see that uncommitted data? If yes, that is called a dirty read [3].
想象一下，一个事务已经向数据库写入了一些数据，但该事务尚未提交或中止。另一个事务能看到这些未提交的数据吗？如果可以，那就称为脏读 [3]。

Transactions running at the read committed isolation level must prevent dirty reads. This means that any writes by a transaction only become visible to others when that transaction commits (and then all of its writes become visible at once). This is illustrated in Figure 8-4, where user 1 has set x = 3, but user 2’s get x still returns the old value, 2, while user 1 has not yet committed.
在读取已提交隔离级别下运行的事务必须防止脏读。这意味着事务的任何写入只有在该事务提交后才对其他事务可见（然后它的所有写入会同时变得可见）。如图 8-4 所示，用户 1 将 x 设置为 3，但用户 2 的获取 x 仍然返回旧值 2，因为用户 1 尚未提交。

ddia 0804
Figure 8-4. No dirty reads: user 2 sees the new value for x only after user 1’s transaction has committed.
图 8-4. 无脏读：用户 2 只有在用户 1 的事务提交后才能看到 x 的新值。

There are a few reasons why it’s useful to prevent dirty reads:
防止脏读有几个原因：

If a transaction needs to update several rows, a dirty read means that another transaction may see some of the updates but not others. For example, in Figure 8-2, the user sees the new unread email but not the updated counter. This is a dirty read of the email. Seeing the database in a partially updated state is confusing to users and may cause other transactions to take incorrect decisions.
如果一个事务需要更新多行数据，脏读意味着另一个事务可能会看到某些更新但看不到其他更新。例如，在图 8-2 中，用户看到了新的未读邮件，但没有看到更新的计数器。这是对邮件的脏读。以部分更新的状态查看数据库会让用户感到困惑，并可能导致其他事务做出错误的决策。

If a transaction aborts, any writes it has made need to be rolled back (like in Figure 8-3). If the database allows dirty reads, that means a transaction may see data that is later rolled back—i.e., which is never actually committed to the database. Any transaction that read uncommitted data would also need to be aborted, leading to a problem called cascading aborts.
如果一个事务中止，它所做的任何写入都需要回滚（如图 8-3 所示）。如果数据库允许脏读，这意味着一个事务可能会看到后来被回滚的数据——即，实际上从未提交到数据库的数据。任何读取未提交数据的事务也需要被中止，这会导致一个称为级联中止的问题。

No dirty writes
没有脏写

What happens if two transactions concurrently try to update the same row in a database? We don’t know in which order the writes will happen, but we normally assume that the later write overwrites the earlier write.
如果两个事务同时尝试更新数据库中的同一行，会发生什么？我们不知道写入的顺序，但通常假设后来的写入会覆盖早期的写入。

However, what happens if the earlier write is part of a transaction that has not yet committed, so the later write overwrites an uncommitted value? This is called a dirty write [36]. Transactions running at the read committed isolation level must prevent dirty writes, usually by delaying the second write until the first write’s transaction has committed or aborted.
然而，如果早期的写入是一个尚未提交的事务的一部分，那么后续的写入会覆盖一个未提交的值，这会发生什么呢？这被称为脏写 [36]。在读已提交隔离级别下运行的事务必须防止脏写，通常通过延迟第二次写入，直到第一次写入的事务已提交或中止。

By preventing dirty writes, this isolation level avoids some kinds of concurrency problems:
通过防止脏写，这种隔离级别避免了一些类型的并发问题：

If transactions update multiple rows, dirty writes can lead to a bad outcome. For example, consider Figure 8-5, which illustrates a used car sales website on which two people, Alice and Bob, are simultaneously trying to buy the same car. Buying a car requires two database writes: the listing on the website needs to be updated to reflect the buyer, and the sales invoice needs to be sent to the buyer. In the case of Figure 8-5, the sale is awarded to Bob (because he performs the winning update to the listings table), but the invoice is sent to Alice (because she performs the winning update to the invoices table). Read committed prevents such mishaps.
如果事务更新多个行，脏写可能导致不良结果。例如，考虑图 8-5，它展示了一个二手车销售网站，两个用户，爱丽丝和鲍勃，正在同时尝试购买同一辆车。购买一辆车需要进行两次数据库写入：网站上的列表需要更新以反映买家，销售发票需要发送给买家。在图 8-5 的情况下，销售被授予鲍勃（因为他对 listings 表进行了获胜的更新），但发票却发送给了爱丽丝（因为她对 invoices 表进行了获胜的更新）。读已提交防止了这种失误。

However, read committed does not prevent the race condition between two counter increments in Figure 8-1. In this case, the second write happens after the first transaction has committed, so it’s not a dirty write. It’s still incorrect, but for a different reason—in “Preventing Lost Updates” we will discuss how to make such counter increments safe.
然而，读已提交并不能防止图 8-1 中两个计数器递增之间的竞争条件。在这种情况下，第二次写入发生在第一次事务提交之后，因此这不是脏写。它仍然是不正确的，但原因不同——在“防止丢失更新”中，我们将讨论如何使这样的计数器递增安全。

ddia 0805
Figure 8-5. With dirty writes, conflicting writes from different transactions can be mixed up.
图 8-5. 在脏写的情况下，不同事务的冲突写入可能会混淆。

Implementing read committed
实现读已提交

Read committed is a very popular isolation level. It is the default setting in Oracle Database, PostgreSQL, SQL Server, and many other databases [10].
读已提交是一个非常流行的隔离级别。它是 Oracle 数据库、PostgreSQL、SQL Server 和许多其他数据库的默认设置[10]。

Most commonly, databases prevent dirty writes by using row-level locks: when a transaction wants to modify a particular row (or document or some other object), it must first acquire a lock on that row. It must then hold that lock until the transaction is committed or aborted. Only one transaction can hold the lock for any given row; if another transaction wants to write to the same row, it must wait until the first transaction is committed or aborted before it can acquire the lock and continue. This locking is done automatically by databases in read committed mode (or stronger isolation levels).
最常见的，数据库通过使用行级锁来防止脏写：当一个事务想要修改特定的行（或文档或其他对象）时，它必须首先获取该行的锁。然后，它必须保持该锁，直到事务被提交或中止。任何给定行只能由一个事务持有锁；如果另一个事务想要写入同一行，它必须等到第一个事务被提交或中止后才能获取锁并继续。这种锁定是在读取已提交模式（或更强的隔离级别）下由数据库自动完成的。

How do we prevent dirty reads? One option would be to use the same lock, and to require any transaction that wants to read a row to briefly acquire the lock and then release it again immediately after reading. This would ensure that a read couldn’t happen while a row has a dirty, uncommitted value (because during that time the lock would be held by the transaction that has made the write).
我们如何防止脏读？一种选择是使用相同的锁，并要求任何想要读取某行的事务暂时获取锁，然后在读取后立即释放它。这将确保在行具有脏的、未提交的值时无法进行读取（因为在此期间锁将由进行写入的事务持有）。

However, the approach of requiring read locks does not work well in practice, because one long-running write transaction can force many other transactions to wait until the long-running transaction has completed, even if the other transactions only read and do not write anything to the database. This harms the response time of read-only transactions and is bad for operability: a slowdown in one part of an application can have a knock-on effect in a completely different part of the application, due to waiting for locks.
然而，要求读取锁的这种方法在实践中效果不佳，因为一个长时间运行的写事务可能会迫使许多其他事务等待，直到该长时间运行的事务完成，即使其他事务只是读取而不向数据库写入任何内容。这会损害只读事务的响应时间，并且对可操作性不利：应用程序某一部分的减速可能会对应用程序的完全不同部分产生连锁反应，因为需要等待锁。

Nevertheless, locks are used to prevent dirty reads in some databases, such as IBM Db2 and Microsoft SQL Server in the read_committed_snapshot=off setting [29].
然而，在某些数据库中，例如 IBM Db2 和 Microsoft SQL Server，在 read_committed_snapshot=off 设置中使用锁来防止脏读 [ 29 ]。

A more commonly used approach to preventing dirty reads is the one illustrated in Figure 8-4: for every row that is written, the database remembers both the old committed value and the new value set by the transaction that currently holds the write lock. While the transaction is ongoing, any other transactions that read the row are simply given the old value. Only when the new value is committed do transactions switch over to reading the new value (see “Multi-version concurrency control (MVCC)” for more detail).
防止脏读的更常用的方法是图 8-4 中所示的：对于每一行被写入的记录，数据库会记住旧的已提交值和当前持有写锁的事务设置的新值。在事务进行期间，任何其他读取该行的事务都将简单地获得旧值。只有当新值被提交时，事务才会切换到读取新值（有关更多细节，请参见“多版本并发控制（MVCC）”）。

Snapshot Isolation and Repeatable Read
快照隔离与可重复读

If you look superficially at read committed isolation, you could be forgiven for thinking that it does everything that a transaction needs to do: it allows aborts (required for atomicity), it prevents reading the incomplete results of transactions, and it prevents concurrent writes from getting intermingled. Indeed, those are useful features, and much stronger guarantees than you can get from a system that has no transactions.
如果你表面上看待已提交读隔离，你可能会认为它满足事务所需的一切：它允许中止（这是原子性所必需的），它防止读取事务的不完整结果，并且它防止并发写入交错在一起。确实，这些都是有用的特性，比没有事务的系统提供了更强的保证。

However, there are still plenty of ways in which you can have concurrency bugs when using this isolation level. For example, Figure 8-6 illustrates a problem that can occur with read committed.
然而，在使用这种隔离级别时，仍然有很多方式可能导致并发错误。例如，图 8-6 展示了在已提交读中可能出现的问题。

ddia 0806
Figure 8-6. Read skew: Alice observes the database in an inconsistent state.
图 8-6. 读取偏斜：爱丽丝观察到数据库处于不一致状态。

Say Alice has $1,000 of savings at a bank, split across two accounts with $500 each. Now a transaction transfers $100 from one of her accounts to the other. If she is unlucky enough to look at her list of account balances in the same moment as that transaction is being processed, she may see one account balance at a time before the incoming payment has arrived (with a balance of $500), and the other account after the outgoing transfer has been made (the new balance being $400). To Alice it now appears as though she only has a total of $900 in her accounts—it seems that $100 has vanished into thin air.
假设爱丽丝在银行有 $1,000 的存款，分布在两个账户中，每个账户 $500。现在进行了一笔交易，将 $100 从她的一个账户转移到另一个账户。如果她不幸在交易处理的同时查看她的账户余额列表，她可能会在收到付款之前看到一个账户的余额（$500），而在发出转账后看到另一个账户（新余额为 $400）。对爱丽丝来说，现在似乎她的账户总共只有 $900——似乎 $100 突然消失了。

This anomaly is called read skew, and it is an example of a nonrepeatable read: if Alice were to read the balance of account 1 again at the end of the transaction, she would see a different value ($600) than she saw in her previous query. Read skew is considered acceptable under read committed isolation: the account balances that Alice saw were indeed committed at the time when she read them.
这种异常现象被称为读取偏差，它是不可重复读取的一个例子：如果爱丽丝在交易结束时再次读取账户 1 的余额，她会看到一个与之前查询不同的值（$600）。在读取已提交隔离级别下，读取偏差被认为是可以接受的：爱丽丝看到的账户余额确实是在她读取时已提交的。

Note
注意

The term skew is unfortunately overloaded: we previously used it in the sense of an unbalanced workload with hot spots (see “Skewed Workloads and Relieving Hot Spots”), whereas here it means timing anomaly.
术语“偏斜”不幸地被过度使用：我们之前在“偏斜工作负载和缓解热点”中使用它来指代不平衡的工作负载和热点，而在这里它指的是时序异常。

In Alice’s case, this is not a lasting problem, because she will most likely see consistent account balances if she reloads the online banking website a few seconds later. However, some situations cannot tolerate such temporary inconsistency:
在爱丽丝的案例中，这不是一个持久性的问题，因为如果她在几秒钟后重新加载在线银行网站，她很可能会看到一致的账户余额。然而，有些情况无法容忍这种临时不一致：

Backups
备份
Taking a backup requires making a copy of the entire database, which may take hours on a large database. During the time that the backup process is running, writes will continue to be made to the database. Thus, you could end up with some parts of the backup containing an older version of the data, and other parts containing a newer version. If you need to restore from such a backup, the inconsistencies (such as disappearing money) become permanent.
进行备份需要复制整个数据库，这在大型数据库上可能需要几个小时。在备份过程运行期间，写入操作将继续进行到数据库中。因此，您可能会发现备份的某些部分包含旧版本的数据，而其他部分则包含新版本。如果您需要从这样的备份中恢复，不一致性（例如消失的钱）将变得永久。

Analytic queries and integrity checks
分析查询和完整性检查
Sometimes, you may want to run a query that scans over large parts of the database. Such queries are common in analytics (see “Analytical versus Operational Systems”), or may be part of a periodic integrity check that everything is in order (monitoring for data corruption). These queries are likely to return nonsensical results if they observe parts of the database at different points in time.
有时，您可能想要运行一个查询，该查询扫描数据库的大部分内容。这类查询在分析中很常见（参见“分析系统与操作系统”），或者可能是定期完整性检查的一部分，以确保一切正常（监测数据损坏）。如果这些查询在不同时间点观察数据库的不同部分，可能会返回无意义的结果。

Snapshot isolation [36] is the most common solution to this problem. The idea is that each transaction reads from a consistent snapshot of the database—that is, the transaction sees all the data that was committed in the database at the start of the transaction. Even if the data is subsequently changed by another transaction, each transaction sees only the old data from that particular point in time.
快照隔离 [ 36] 是解决此问题最常见的方案。其理念是每个事务从数据库的一致快照中读取数据——也就是说，事务看到的是在事务开始时已提交的所有数据。即使数据随后被另一个事务更改，每个事务也只会看到特定时间点的旧数据。

Snapshot isolation is a boon for long-running, read-only queries such as backups and analytics. It is very hard to reason about the meaning of a query if the data on which it operates is changing at the same time as the query is executing. When a transaction can see a consistent snapshot of the database, frozen at a particular point in time, it is much easier to understand.
快照隔离对长时间运行的只读查询（如备份和分析）是一个福音。如果在查询执行的同时，操作的数据正在变化，那么很难推理查询的含义。当一个事务能够看到数据库的一致快照，并在特定时间点被冻结时，理解起来就容易得多。

Snapshot isolation is a popular feature: variants of it are supported by PostgreSQL, MySQL with the InnoDB storage engine, Oracle, SQL Server, and others, although the detailed behavior varies from one system to the next [29, 40, 41]. Some databases, such as Oracle, TiDB, and Aurora DSQL, even choose snapshot isolation as their highest isolation level.
快照隔离是一种流行的特性：PostgreSQL、使用 InnoDB 存储引擎的 MySQL、Oracle、SQL Server 等都支持其变体，尽管详细行为因系统而异 [29, 40, 41]。一些数据库，如 Oracle、TiDB 和 Aurora DSQL，甚至选择快照隔离作为其最高隔离级别。

Multi-version concurrency control (MVCC)
多版本并发控制（MVCC）

Like read committed isolation, implementations of snapshot isolation typically use write locks to prevent dirty writes (see “Implementing read committed”), which means that a transaction that makes a write can block the progress of another transaction that writes to the same row. However, reads do not require any locks. From a performance point of view, a key principle of snapshot isolation is readers never block writers, and writers never block readers. This allows a database to handle long-running read queries on a consistent snapshot at the same time as processing writes normally, without any lock contention between the two.
与已提交读隔离类似，快照隔离的实现通常使用写锁来防止脏写（参见“实现已提交读”），这意味着进行写操作的事务可能会阻塞另一个写入同一行的事务的进展。然而，读取操作不需要任何锁。从性能的角度来看，快照隔离的一个关键原则是读取者永远不会阻塞写入者，而写入者也永远不会阻塞读取者。这使得数据库能够在处理写入操作的同时，处理基于一致快照的长时间运行的读取查询，而两者之间没有任何锁竞争。

To implement snapshot isolation, databases use a generalization of the mechanism we saw for preventing dirty reads in Figure 8-4. Instead of two versions of each row (the committed version and the overwritten-but-not-yet-committed version), the database must potentially keep several different committed versions of a row, because various in-progress transactions may need to see the state of the database at different points in time. Because it maintains several versions of a row side by side, this technique is known as multi-version concurrency control (MVCC).
为了实现快照隔离，数据库使用了一种我们在图 8-4 中看到的防止脏读机制的推广。数据库必须可能保留同一行的多个不同已提交版本，而不是每行两个版本（已提交版本和被覆盖但尚未提交的版本），因为各种进行中的事务可能需要在不同时间点查看数据库的状态。由于它并排维护多版本的行，这种技术被称为多版本并发控制（MVCC）。

Figure 8-7 illustrates how MVCC-based snapshot isolation is implemented in PostgreSQL [40, 42, 43] (other implementations are similar). When a transaction is started, it is given a unique, always-increasing transaction ID (txid). Whenever a transaction writes anything to the database, the data it writes is tagged with the transaction ID of the writer. (To be precise, transaction IDs in PostgreSQL are 32-bit integers, so they overflow after approximately 4 billion transactions. The vacuum process performs cleanup to ensure that overflow does not affect the data.)
图 8-7 说明了基于 MVCC 的快照隔离在 PostgreSQL 中的实现[40, 42, 43]（其他实现类似）。当一个事务开始时，它会被分配一个唯一的、始终递增的事务 ID（ txid ）。每当一个事务向数据库写入任何内容时，它写入的数据会标记上写入者的事务 ID。（准确地说，PostgreSQL 中的事务 ID 是 32 位整数，因此在大约 40 亿个事务后会溢出。清理过程会执行清理以确保溢出不会影响数据。）

ddia 0807
Figure 8-7. Implementing snapshot isolation using multi-version concurrency control.
图 8-7. 使用多版本并发控制实现快照隔离。

Each row in a table has a inserted_by field, containing the ID of the transaction that inserted this row into the table. Moreover, each row has a deleted_by field, which is initially empty. If a transaction deletes a row, the row isn’t actually removed from the database, but it is marked for deletion by setting the deleted_by field to the ID of the transaction that requested the deletion. At some later time, when it is certain that no transaction can any longer access the deleted data, a garbage collection process in the database removes any rows marked for deletion and frees their space.
表中的每一行都有一个 inserted_by 字段，包含将该行插入表中的事务的 ID。此外，每一行还有一个 deleted_by 字段，最初是空的。如果一个事务删除了一行，该行并不会实际从数据库中移除，而是通过将 deleted_by 字段设置为请求删除的事务的 ID 来标记为删除。在稍后的某个时间，当确定没有事务可以再访问已删除的数据时，数据库中的垃圾回收过程会移除任何标记为删除的行并释放它们的空间。

An update is internally translated into a delete and a insert. For example, in Figure 8-7, transaction 13 deducts $100 from account 2, changing the balance from $500 to $400. The accounts table now actually contains two rows for account 2: a row with a balance of $500 which was marked as deleted by transaction 13, and a row with a balance of $400 which was inserted by transaction 13.
更新在内部被转换为删除和插入。例如，在图 8-7 中，事务 13 从账户 2 中扣除 100 美元，将余额从 500 美元更改为 400 美元。现在 accounts 表实际上包含账户 2 的两行：一行余额为 500 美元，已被事务 13 标记为删除，另一行余额为 400 美元，由事务 13 插入。

All of the versions of a row are stored within the same database heap (see “Storing values within the index”), regardless of whether the transactions that wrote them have committed or not. The versions of the same row form a linked list, going either from newest version to oldest version or the other way round, so that queries can internally iterate over all versions of a row [44, 45].
所有版本的行都存储在同一个数据库堆中（参见“在索引中存储值”），无论写入它们的事务是否已提交。相同行的版本形成一个链表，可以从最新版本到最旧版本，或反向迭代，以便查询可以在内部遍历行的所有版本 [ 44, 45 ]。

Visibility rules for observing a consistent snapshot
观察一致快照的可见性规则

When a transaction reads from the database, transaction IDs are used to decide which row versions it can see and which are invisible. By carefully defining visibility rules, the database can present a consistent snapshot of the database to the application. This works roughly as follows [43]:
当一个事务从数据库读取时，使用事务 ID 来决定它可以看到哪些行版本以及哪些是不可见的。通过仔细定义可见性规则，数据库可以向应用程序呈现数据库的一致快照。其大致工作原理如下 [ 43 ]：

At the start of each transaction, the database makes a list of all the other transactions that are in progress (not yet committed or aborted) at that time. Any writes that those transactions have made are ignored, even if the transactions subsequently commit. This ensures that we see a consistent snapshot that is not affected by another transaction committing.
在每个事务开始时，数据库会列出当时所有正在进行的其他事务（尚未提交或中止）。那些事务所做的任何写入都会被忽略，即使这些事务随后提交。这确保我们看到的快照是一致的，不会受到其他事务提交的影响。

Any writes made by transactions with a later transaction ID (i.e., which started after the current transaction started, and which are therefore not included in the list of in-progress transactions) are ignored, regardless of whether those transactions have committed.
任何由后续事务 ID（即在当前事务开始后开始的事务，因此不包括在进行中的事务列表中）所做的写入都会被忽略，无论这些事务是否已提交。

Any writes made by aborted transactions are ignored, regardless of when that abort happened. This has the advantage that when a transaction aborts, we don’t need to immediately remove the rows it wrote from storage, since the visibility rule filters them out. The garbage collection process can remove them later.
任何被中止事务所做的写入都会被忽略，无论该中止发生在何时。这有一个好处，即当事务中止时，我们不需要立即从存储中删除它所写的行，因为可见性规则会将它们过滤掉。垃圾回收过程可以稍后再将它们删除。

All other writes are visible to the application’s queries.
所有其他写入对应用程序的查询都是可见的。

These rules apply to both insertion and deletion of rows. In Figure 8-7, when transaction 12 reads from account 2, it sees a balance of $500 because the deletion of the $500 balance was made by transaction 13 (according to rule 2, transaction 12 cannot see a deletion made by transaction 13), and the insertion of the $400 balance is not yet visible (by the same rule).
这些规则适用于行的插入和删除。在图 8-7 中，当事务 12 从账户 2 读取时，它看到的余额为 500 美元，因为 500 美元余额的删除是由事务 13 进行的（根据规则 2，事务 12 无法看到事务 13 进行的删除），而 400 美元余额的插入尚不可见（根据同一规则）。

Put another way, a row is visible if both of the following conditions are true:
换句话说，如果以下两个条件都成立，则该行是可见的：

At the time when the reader’s transaction started, the transaction that inserted the row had already committed.
在读取者的事务开始时，插入该行的事务已经提交。

The row is not marked for deletion, or if it is, the transaction that requested deletion had not yet committed at the time when the reader’s transaction started.
该行未标记为删除，或者如果标记了删除，则请求删除的事务在读取事务开始时尚未提交。

A long-running transaction may continue using a snapshot for a long time, continuing to read values that (from other transactions’ point of view) have long been overwritten or deleted. By never updating values in place but instead inserting a new version every time a value is changed, the database can provide a consistent snapshot while incurring only a small overhead.
长时间运行的事务可能会继续使用快照很长时间，继续读取那些（从其他事务的角度来看）早已被覆盖或删除的值。通过每次更改值时插入新版本而不是就地更新值，数据库可以提供一致的快照，同时仅产生少量开销。

Indexes and snapshot isolation
索引和快照隔离

How do indexes work in a multi-version database? The most common approach is that each index entry points at one of the versions of a row that matches the entry (either the oldest or the newest version). Each row version may contain a reference to the next-oldest or next-newest version. A query that uses the index must then iterate over the rows to find one that is visible, and where the value matches what the query is looking for. When garbage collection removes old row versions that are no longer visible to any transaction, the corresponding index entries can also be removed.
多版本数据库中的索引是如何工作的？最常见的方法是每个索引条目指向与该条目匹配的行的一个版本（要么是最旧的版本，要么是最新的版本）。每个行版本可能包含对下一个最旧或下一个最新版本的引用。使用索引的查询必须遍历行以找到一个可见的，并且其值与查询所寻找的匹配。当垃圾回收移除不再对任何事务可见的旧行版本时，相应的索引条目也可以被移除。

Many implementation details affect the performance of multi-version concurrency control [44, 45]. For example, PostgreSQL has optimizations for avoiding index updates if different versions of the same row can fit on the same page [40]. Some other databases avoid storing full copies of modified rows, and only store differences between versions to save space.
许多实现细节会影响多版本并发控制的性能 [ 44, 45]。例如，PostgreSQL 具有优化功能，可以避免在同一页面上存放同一行的不同版本时更新索引 [ 40]。其他一些数据库则避免存储修改行的完整副本，仅存储版本之间的差异以节省空间。

Another approach is used in CouchDB, Datomic, and LMDB. Although they also use B-trees (see “B-Trees”), they use an immutable (copy-on-write) variant that does not overwrite pages of the tree when they are updated, but instead creates a new copy of each modified page. Parent pages, up to the root of the tree, are copied and updated to point to the new versions of their child pages. Any pages that are not affected by a write do not need to be copied, and can be shared with the new tree [46].
另一种方法在 CouchDB、Datomic 和 LMDB 中使用。尽管它们也使用 B 树（见“B 树”），但它们使用一种不可变（写时复制）变体，在更新时不会覆盖树的页面，而是创建每个修改页面的新副本。父页面一直复制到树的根部，并更新以指向其子页面的新版本。任何未受到写入影响的页面不需要被复制，可以与新树共享 [46]。

With immutable B-trees, every write transaction (or batch of transactions) creates a new B-tree root, and a particular root is a consistent snapshot of the database at the point in time when it was created. There is no need to filter out rows based on transaction IDs because subsequent writes cannot modify an existing B-tree; they can only create new tree roots. This approach also requires a background process for compaction and garbage collection.
使用不可变的 B 树，每个写事务（或事务批次）都会创建一个新的 B 树根，而特定的根是在创建时数据库的一致快照。无需根据事务 ID 过滤行，因为后续的写入无法修改现有的 B 树；它们只能创建新的树根。这种方法还需要一个后台进程进行压缩和垃圾回收。

Snapshot isolation, repeatable read, and naming confusion
快照隔离、可重复读和命名混淆

MVCC is a commonly used implementation technique for databases, and often it is used to implement snapshot isolation. However, different databases sometimes use different terms to refer to the same thing: for example, snapshot isolation is called “repeatable read” in PostgreSQL, and “serializable” in Oracle [29]. Sometimes different systems use the same term to mean different things: for example, while in PostgreSQL “repeatable read” means snapshot isolation, in MySQL it means an implementation of MVCC with weaker consistency than snapshot isolation [41].
MVCC 是一种常用的数据库实现技术，通常用于实现快照隔离。然而，不同的数据库有时会使用不同的术语来指代同一事物：例如，在 PostgreSQL 中，快照隔离被称为“可重复读”，而在 Oracle 中则称为“可串行化” [ 29]。有时，不同的系统使用相同的术语来表示不同的含义：例如，在 PostgreSQL 中，“可重复读”意味着快照隔离，而在 MySQL 中则意味着一种实现了 MVCC 的一致性弱于快照隔离的方式 [ 41]。

The reason for this naming confusion is that the SQL standard doesn’t have the concept of snapshot isolation, because the standard is based on System R’s 1975 definition of isolation levels [3] and snapshot isolation hadn’t yet been invented then. Instead, it defines repeatable read, which looks superficially similar to snapshot isolation. PostgreSQL calls its snapshot isolation level “repeatable read” because it meets the requirements of the standard, and so they can claim standards compliance.
这种命名混淆的原因在于 SQL 标准并没有快照隔离的概念，因为该标准是基于 System R 在 1975 年对隔离级别的定义 [ 3]，而那时快照隔离尚未被发明。相反，它定义了可重复读，这在表面上看起来与快照隔离相似。PostgreSQL 将其快照隔离级别称为“可重复读”，因为它符合标准的要求，因此可以声称符合标准。

Unfortunately, the SQL standard’s definition of isolation levels is flawed—it is ambiguous, imprecise, and not as implementation-independent as a standard should be [36]. Even though several databases implement repeatable read, there are big differences in the guarantees they actually provide, despite being ostensibly standardized [29]. There has been a formal definition of repeatable read in the research literature [37, 38], but most implementations don’t satisfy that formal definition. And to top it off, IBM Db2 uses “repeatable read” to refer to serializability [10].
不幸的是，SQL 标准对隔离级别的定义存在缺陷——它模糊、不精确，并且没有达到标准应有的独立于实现的程度 [36]。尽管有几个数据库实现了可重复读，但它们实际提供的保证存在很大差异，尽管表面上看是标准化的 [29]。在研究文献中有对可重复读的正式定义 [37, 38]，但大多数实现并不满足该正式定义。而且，IBM Db2 使用“可重复读”来指代可串行化性 [10]。

As a result, nobody really knows what repeatable read means.
因此，没人真正知道可重复读意味着什么。

Preventing Lost Updates
防止丢失更新

The read committed and snapshot isolation levels we’ve discussed so far have been primarily about the guarantees of what a read-only transaction can see in the presence of concurrent writes. We have mostly ignored the issue of two transactions writing concurrently—we have only discussed dirty writes (see “No dirty writes”), one particular type of write-write conflict that can occur.
我们迄今讨论的已提交读和快照隔离级别主要是关于在并发写入的情况下，读事务可以看到的保证。我们大多忽略了两个事务并发写入的问题——我们只讨论了脏写（见“无脏写”），这是一种可能发生的特定类型的写写冲突。

There are several other interesting kinds of conflicts that can occur between concurrently writing transactions. The best known of these is the lost update problem, illustrated in Figure 8-1 with the example of two concurrent counter increments.
在并发写入事务之间可能发生几种其他有趣的冲突。其中最著名的是丢失更新问题，如图 8-1 所示，例子是两个并发的计数器递增。

The lost update problem can occur if an application reads some value from the database, modifies it, and writes back the modified value (a read-modify-write cycle). If two transactions do this concurrently, one of the modifications can be lost, because the second write does not include the first modification. (We sometimes say that the later write clobbers the earlier write.) This pattern occurs in various different scenarios:
丢失更新问题可能发生在应用程序从数据库读取某个值，修改它，然后写回修改后的值（读-修改-写循环）。如果两个事务同时执行此操作，则其中一个修改可能会丢失，因为第二次写入不包括第一次修改。（我们有时会说后面的写入覆盖了前面的写入。）这种模式在不同的场景中都会出现：

Incrementing a counter or updating an account balance (requires reading the current value, calculating the new value, and writing back the updated value)
递增计数器或更新账户余额（需要读取当前值、计算新值并写回更新后的值）

Making a local change to a complex value, e.g., adding an element to a list within a JSON document (requires parsing the document, making the change, and writing back the modified document)
对复杂值进行本地更改，例如，在 JSON 文档中向列表添加元素（需要解析文档、进行更改并写回修改后的文档）

Two users editing a wiki page at the same time, where each user saves their changes by sending the entire page contents to the server, overwriting whatever is currently in the database
两个用户同时编辑一个维基页面，每个用户通过将整个页面内容发送到服务器来保存他们的更改，覆盖数据库中当前的内容。

Because this is such a common problem, a variety of solutions have been developed.
由于这是一个非常常见的问题，因此开发了多种解决方案。

Atomic write operations
原子写操作

Many databases provide atomic update operations, which remove the need to implement read-modify-write cycles in application code. They are usually the best solution if your code can be expressed in terms of those operations. For example, the following instruction is concurrency-safe in most relational databases:
许多数据库提供原子更新操作，这消除了在应用程序代码中实现读-修改-写循环的需要。如果您的代码可以用这些操作来表达，它们通常是最佳解决方案。例如，以下指令在大多数关系数据库中是并发安全的：

UPDATE counters SET value = value + 1 WHERE key = 'foo';
Similarly, document databases such as MongoDB provide atomic operations for making local modifications to a part of a JSON document, and Redis provides atomic operations for modifying data structures such as priority queues. Not all writes can easily be expressed in terms of atomic operations—for example, updates to a wiki page involve arbitrary text editing, which can be handled using algorithms discussed in “CRDTs and Operational Transformation”—but in situations where atomic operations can be used, they are usually the best choice.
类似地，像 MongoDB 这样的文档数据库提供原子操作，用于对 JSON 文档的一部分进行本地修改，而 Redis 提供原子操作，用于修改优先队列等数据结构。并非所有写入操作都可以轻松地用原子操作来表达——例如，维基页面的更新涉及任意文本编辑，这可以通过“CRDTs 和操作转换”中讨论的算法来处理——但在可以使用原子操作的情况下，它们通常是最佳选择。

Atomic operations are usually implemented by taking an exclusive lock on the object when it is read so that no other transaction can read it until the update has been applied. Another option is to simply force all atomic operations to be executed on a single thread.
原子操作通常通过在读取对象时对其进行独占锁定来实现，以便在更新应用之前，其他事务无法读取该对象。另一个选项是强制所有原子操作在单个线程上执行。

Unfortunately, object-relational mapping (ORM) frameworks make it easy to accidentally write code that performs unsafe read-modify-write cycles instead of using atomic operations provided by the database [47, 48, 49]. This can be a source of subtle bugs that are difficult to find by testing.
不幸的是，对象关系映射（ORM）框架使得意外编写执行不安全的读-修改-写循环的代码变得容易，而不是使用数据库提供的原子操作。这可能是难以通过测试发现的微妙错误的来源。

Explicit locking
显式锁定

Another option for preventing lost updates, if the database’s built-in atomic operations don’t provide the necessary functionality, is for the application to explicitly lock objects that are going to be updated. Then the application can perform a read-modify-write cycle, and if any other transaction tries to concurrently update or lock the same object, it is forced to wait until the first read-modify-write cycle has completed.
如果数据库的内置原子操作没有提供必要的功能，防止丢失更新的另一个选项是应用程序显式锁定将要更新的对象。然后，应用程序可以执行读-修改-写循环，如果其他事务尝试同时更新或锁定同一对象，则必须等待第一个读-修改-写循环完成。

For example, consider a multiplayer game in which several players can move the same figure concurrently. In this case, an atomic operation may not be sufficient, because the application also needs to ensure that a player’s move abides by the rules of the game, which involves some logic that you cannot sensibly implement as a database query. Instead, you may use a lock to prevent two players from concurrently moving the same piece, as illustrated in Example 8-1.
例如，考虑一个多人游戏，其中多个玩家可以同时移动同一个棋子。在这种情况下，原子操作可能不足够，因为应用程序还需要确保玩家的移动遵循游戏规则，这涉及一些逻辑，而这些逻辑无法合理地实现为数据库查询。相反，您可以使用锁来防止两个玩家同时移动同一棋子，如示例 8-1 所示。

Example 8-1. Explicitly locking rows to prevent lost updates
示例 8-1. 显式锁定行以防止更新丢失

BEGIN TRANSACTION;

SELECT \* FROM figures
WHERE name = 'robot' AND game_id = 222
FOR UPDATE; 1

-- Check whether move is valid, then update the position
-- of the piece that was returned by the previous SELECT.
UPDATE figures SET position = 'c4' WHERE id = 1234;

COMMIT;
1
The FOR UPDATE clause indicates that the database should take a lock on all rows returned by this query.
FOR UPDATE 子句表示数据库应对该查询返回的所有行加锁。

This works, but to get it right, you need to carefully think about your application logic. It’s easy to forget to add a necessary lock somewhere in the code, and thus introduce a race condition.
这可以工作，但要做到这一点，您需要仔细考虑您的应用程序逻辑。在代码中很容易忘记添加必要的锁，从而引入竞争条件。

Moreover, if you lock multiple objects there is a risk of deadlock, where two or more transactions are waiting for each other to release their locks. Many databases automatically detect deadlocks, and abort one of the involved transactions so that the system can make progress. You can handle this situation at the application level by retrying the aborted transaction.
此外，如果您锁定多个对象，就存在死锁的风险，即两个或多个事务在等待彼此释放锁。许多数据库会自动检测死锁，并中止其中一个相关事务，以便系统能够继续进行。您可以通过重试被中止的事务在应用程序层面处理这种情况。

Automatically detecting lost updates
自动检测丢失更新

Atomic operations and locks are ways of preventing lost updates by forcing the read-modify-write cycles to happen sequentially. An alternative is to allow them to execute in parallel and, if the transaction manager detects a lost update, abort the transaction and force it to retry its read-modify-write cycle.
原子操作和锁是通过强制读-修改-写周期顺序执行来防止丢失更新的方法。另一种选择是允许它们并行执行，如果事务管理器检测到丢失更新，则中止事务并强制其重试读-修改-写周期。

An advantage of this approach is that databases can perform this check efficiently in conjunction with snapshot isolation. Indeed, PostgreSQL’s repeatable read, Oracle’s serializable, and SQL Server’s snapshot isolation levels automatically detect when a lost update has occurred and abort the offending transaction. However, MySQL/InnoDB’s repeatable read does not detect lost updates [29, 41]. Some authors [36, 38] argue that a database must prevent lost updates in order to qualify as providing snapshot isolation, so MySQL does not provide snapshot isolation under this definition.
这种方法的一个优点是数据库可以高效地与快照隔离一起执行此检查。实际上，PostgreSQL 的可重复读、Oracle 的可串行化和 SQL Server 的快照隔离级别会自动检测到何时发生了丢失更新，并中止有问题的事务。然而，MySQL/InnoDB 的可重复读并不检测丢失更新 [ 29, 41]。一些作者 [ 36, 38] 认为，数据库必须防止丢失更新才能被认为提供快照隔离，因此根据这个定义，MySQL 并不提供快照隔离。

Lost update detection is a great feature, because it doesn’t require application code to use any special database features—you may forget to use a lock or an atomic operation and thus introduce a bug, but lost update detection happens automatically and is thus less error-prone. However, you also have to retry aborted transactions at the application level.
丢失更新检测是一个很好的特性，因为它不需要应用程序代码使用任何特殊的数据库功能——你可能会忘记使用锁或原子操作，从而引入一个错误，但丢失更新检测是自动发生的，因此出错的可能性较小。然而，你也必须在应用程序层面重试被中止的事务。

Conditional writes (compare-and-swap)
条件写入（比较并交换）

In databases that don’t provide transactions, you sometimes find a conditional write operation that can prevent lost updates by allowing an update to happen only if the value has not changed since you last read it (previously mentioned in “Single-object writes”). If the current value does not match what you previously read, the update has no effect, and the read-modify-write cycle must be retried. It is the database equivalent of an atomic compare-and-swap (CAS) instruction that is supported by many CPUs.
在不提供事务的数据库中，有时会发现一种条件写操作，它可以通过允许更新仅在自上次读取后值未发生变化的情况下进行，从而防止丢失更新（在“单对象写入”中提到过）。如果当前值与您之前读取的值不匹配，则更新将无效，读-修改-写循环必须重试。这相当于许多 CPU 支持的原子比较和交换（CAS）指令。

For example, to prevent two users concurrently updating the same wiki page, you might try something like this, expecting the update to occur only if the content of the page hasn’t changed since the user started editing it:
例如，为了防止两个用户同时更新同一维基页面，您可能会尝试类似这样的做法，期望只有在用户开始编辑后页面内容没有变化的情况下才进行更新：

-- This may or may not be safe, depending on the database implementation
UPDATE wiki_pages SET content = 'new content'
WHERE id = 1234 AND content = 'old content';
If the content has changed and no longer matches 'old content', this update will have no effect, so you need to check whether the update took effect and retry if necessary. Instead of comparing the full content, you could also use a version number column that you increment on every update, and apply the update only if the current version number hasn’t changed. This approach is sometimes called optimistic locking [50].
如果内容已更改且不再匹配 'old content' ，则此更新将无效，因此您需要检查更新是否生效，并在必要时重试。您也可以使用一个版本号列，在每次更新时递增，并仅在当前版本号未更改的情况下应用更新，而不是比较完整内容。这种方法有时被称为乐观锁定 [50]。

Note that if another transaction has concurrently modified content, the new content may not be visible under the MVCC visibility rules (see “Visibility rules for observing a consistent snapshot”). Many implementations of MVCC have an exception to the visibility rules for this scenario, where values written by other transactions are visible to the evaluation of the WHERE clause of UPDATE and DELETE queries, even though those writes are not otherwise visible in the snapshot.
请注意，如果另一个事务同时修改了 content ，则根据 MVCC 可见性规则，新内容可能不可见（请参见“观察一致快照的可见性规则”）。许多 MVCC 的实现对此场景的可见性规则有一个例外，即其他事务写入的值在 UPDATE 和 DELETE 查询的 WHERE 子句的评估中是可见的，即使这些写入在快照中并不可见。

Conflict resolution and replication
冲突解决和复制

In replicated databases (see Chapter 6), preventing lost updates takes on another dimension: since they have copies of the data on multiple nodes, and the data can potentially be modified concurrently on different nodes, some additional steps need to be taken to prevent lost updates.
在复制数据库中（请参见第 6 章），防止丢失更新又有了另一个维度：由于它们在多个节点上有数据的副本，并且数据可能在不同节点上同时被修改，因此需要采取一些额外步骤以防止丢失更新。

Locks and conditional write operations assume that there is a single up-to-date copy of the data. However, databases with multi-leader or leaderless replication usually allow several writes to happen concurrently and replicate them asynchronously, so they cannot guarantee that there is a single up-to-date copy of the data. Thus, techniques based on locks or conditional writes do not apply in this context. (We will revisit this issue in more detail in [Link to Come].)
锁和条件写操作假设数据有一个最新的单一副本。然而，具有多主或无主复制的数据库通常允许多个写操作同时发生并异步复制，因此无法保证数据有一个最新的单一副本。因此，基于锁或条件写的技术在这种情况下不适用。（我们将在[链接待更新]中更详细地讨论这个问题。）

Instead, as discussed in “Dealing with Conflicting Writes”, a common approach in such replicated databases is to allow concurrent writes to create several conflicting versions of a value (also known as siblings), and to use application code or special data structures to resolve and merge these versions after the fact.
相反，正如在“处理冲突写入”中讨论的那样，在这种复制数据库中，一个常见的方法是允许并发写入创建多个冲突的值版本（也称为兄弟版本），并使用应用程序代码或特殊数据结构在事后解决和合并这些版本。

Merging conflicting values can prevent lost updates if the updates are commutative (i.e., you can apply them in a different order on different replicas, and still get the same result). For example, incrementing a counter or adding an element to a set are commutative operations. That is the idea behind CRDTs, which we encountered in “CRDTs and Operational Transformation”. However, some operations such as conditional writes cannot be made commutative.
合并冲突值可以防止丢失更新，如果这些更新是可交换的（即，你可以在不同的副本上以不同的顺序应用它们，仍然得到相同的结果）。例如，递增计数器或向集合中添加元素是可交换操作。这就是我们在“CRDTs 和操作转换”中遇到的 CRDT 的理念。然而，一些操作，如条件写入，无法做到可交换。

On the other hand, the last write wins (LWW) conflict resolution method is prone to lost updates, as discussed in “Last write wins (discarding concurrent writes)”. Unfortunately, LWW is the default in many replicated databases.
另一方面，最后写入胜出（LWW）冲突解决方法容易导致丢失更新，如“最后写入胜出（丢弃并发写入）”中所讨论的。不幸的是，LWW 是许多复制数据库中的默认设置。

Write Skew and Phantoms
写偏斜和幻影

In the previous sections we saw dirty writes and lost updates, two kinds of race conditions that can occur when different transactions concurrently try to write to the same objects. In order to avoid data corruption, those race conditions need to be prevented—either automatically by the database, or by manual safeguards such as using locks or atomic write operations.
在前面的部分中，我们看到了脏写和丢失更新，这两种竞争条件可能发生在不同的事务同时尝试写入同一对象时。为了避免数据损坏，这些竞争条件需要被防止——要么由数据库自动处理，要么通过手动保护措施，如使用锁或原子写操作。

However, that is not the end of the list of potential race conditions that can occur between concurrent writes. In this section we will see some subtler examples of conflicts.
然而，这并不是潜在竞争条件列表的结束，这些条件可能在并发写入之间发生。在本节中，我们将看到一些更微妙的冲突示例。

To begin, imagine this example: you are writing an application for doctors to manage their on-call shifts at a hospital. The hospital usually tries to have several doctors on call at any one time, but it absolutely must have at least one doctor on call. Doctors can give up their shifts (e.g., if they are sick themselves), provided that at least one colleague remains on call in that shift [51, 52].
首先，想象这个例子：你正在为医生编写一个应用程序，以管理他们在医院的值班。医院通常会尽量确保在任何时候都有几位医生值班，但绝对必须至少有一位医生在值班。医生可以放弃他们的班次（例如，如果他们自己生病），前提是至少有一位同事在该班次中保持值班 [ 51, 52]。

Now imagine that Alice and Bob are the two on-call doctors for a particular shift. Both are feeling unwell, so they both decide to request leave. Unfortunately, they happen to click the button to go off call at approximately the same time. What happens next is illustrated in Figure 8-8.
现在想象一下，爱丽丝和鲍勃是某个特定班次的两位值班医生。他们都感到不适，因此都决定请假。不幸的是，他们恰好在大约同一时间点击了下线的按钮。接下来发生的事情如图 8-8 所示。

ddia 0808
Figure 8-8. Example of write skew causing an application bug.
图 8-8. 写入偏斜导致应用程序错误的示例。

In each transaction, your application first checks that two or more doctors are currently on call; if yes, it assumes it’s safe for one doctor to go off call. Since the database is using snapshot isolation, both checks return 2, so both transactions proceed to the next stage. Alice updates her own record to take herself off call, and Bob updates his own record likewise. Both transactions commit, and now no doctor is on call. Your requirement of having at least one doctor on call has been violated.
在每个事务中，您的应用程序首先检查是否有两个或更多的医生正在值班；如果是，它假设一个医生可以安全地下班。由于数据库使用快照隔离，两个检查都返回 2 ，因此两个事务都继续到下一个阶段。爱丽丝更新她自己的记录以将自己下班，鲍勃也同样更新自己的记录。两个事务都提交，现在没有医生在值班。您对至少有一名医生值班的要求被违反了。

Characterizing write skew
特征化写偏差

This anomaly is called write skew [36]. It is neither a dirty write nor a lost update, because the two transactions are updating two different objects (Alice’s and Bob’s on-call records, respectively). It is less obvious that a conflict occurred here, but it’s definitely a race condition: if the two transactions had run one after another, the second doctor would have been prevented from going off call. The anomalous behavior was only possible because the transactions ran concurrently.
这种异常被称为写偏差 [36]。它既不是脏写也不是丢失更新，因为这两个事务正在更新两个不同的对象（分别是爱丽丝和鲍勃的值班记录）。这里发生冲突并不那么明显，但这绝对是一个竞争条件：如果这两个事务一个接一个地运行，第二位医生将被阻止下班。异常行为的发生仅仅是因为这两个事务并发运行。

You can think of write skew as a generalization of the lost update problem. Write skew can occur if two transactions read the same objects, and then update some of those objects (different transactions may update different objects). In the special case where different transactions update the same object, you get a dirty write or lost update anomaly (depending on the timing).
您可以将写偏斜视为丢失更新问题的一个概括。如果两个事务读取相同的对象，然后更新其中一些对象（不同的事务可能更新不同的对象），则可能发生写偏斜。在不同事务更新同一对象的特殊情况下，您会遇到脏写或丢失更新异常（具体取决于时机）。

We saw that there are various different ways of preventing lost updates. With write skew, our options are more restricted:
我们看到有多种不同的方法来防止丢失更新。对于写偏斜，我们的选择更加有限：

Atomic single-object operations don’t help, as multiple objects are involved.
原子单对象操作无济于事，因为涉及多个对象。

The automatic detection of lost updates that you find in some implementations of snapshot isolation unfortunately doesn’t help either: write skew is not automatically detected in PostgreSQL’s repeatable read, MySQL/InnoDB’s repeatable read, Oracle’s serializable, or SQL Server’s snapshot isolation level [29]. Automatically preventing write skew requires true serializable isolation (see “Serializability”).
不幸的是，在某些快照隔离的实现中发现的丢失更新自动检测也无能为力：在 PostgreSQL 的可重复读、MySQL/InnoDB 的可重复读、Oracle 的可串行化或 SQL Server 的快照隔离级别中，写偏差不会被自动检测到[29]。自动防止写偏差需要真正的可串行化隔离（见“可串行化”）。

Some databases allow you to configure constraints, which are then enforced by the database (e.g., uniqueness, foreign key constraints, or restrictions on a particular value). However, in order to specify that at least one doctor must be on call, you would need a constraint that involves multiple objects. Most databases do not have built-in support for such constraints, but you may be able to implement them with triggers or materialized views, as discussed in “Consistency” [12].
一些数据库允许您配置约束，这些约束随后由数据库强制执行（例如，唯一性、外键约束或对特定值的限制）。然而，为了指定至少必须有一名医生值班，您需要一个涉及多个对象的约束。大多数数据库不支持此类内置约束，但您可以通过触发器或物化视图来实现，如“一致性”一节中所讨论的 [12]。

If you can’t use a serializable isolation level, the second-best option in this case is probably to explicitly lock the rows that the transaction depends on. In the doctors example, you could write something like the following:
如果无法使用可串行化的隔离级别，那么在这种情况下，第二好的选择可能是显式锁定事务所依赖的行。在医生的例子中，你可以写如下内容：

BEGIN TRANSACTION;

SELECT \* FROM doctors
WHERE on_call = true
AND shift_id = 1234 FOR UPDATE; 1

UPDATE doctors
SET on_call = false
WHERE name = 'Alice'
AND shift_id = 1234;

COMMIT;
1
As before, FOR UPDATE tells the database to lock all rows returned by this query.
与之前一样， FOR UPDATE 告诉数据库锁定此查询返回的所有行。

More examples of write skew
更多写偏差的例子

Write skew may seem like an esoteric issue at first, but once you’re aware of it, you may notice more situations in which it can occur. Here are some more examples:
写偏斜乍一看可能是一个深奥的问题，但一旦你意识到它的存在，你可能会注意到更多可能发生这种情况的场景。以下是一些更多的例子：

Meeting room booking system
会议室预订系统
Say you want to enforce that there cannot be two bookings for the same meeting room at the same time [53]. When someone wants to make a booking, you first check for any conflicting bookings (i.e., bookings for the same room with an overlapping time range), and if none are found, you create the meeting (see Example 8-2).
假设您想要确保同一时间内不能有两个预订同一会议室的情况。当有人想要进行预订时，您首先检查是否有任何冲突的预订（即，同一房间的预订时间范围重叠），如果没有找到冲突，您就可以创建会议（见示例 8-2）。

Example 8-2. A meeting room booking system tries to avoid double-booking (not safe under snapshot isolation)
示例 8-2. 会议室预订系统尝试避免重复预订（在快照隔离下不安全）

BEGIN TRANSACTION;

-- Check for any existing bookings that overlap with the period of noon-1pm
SELECT COUNT(\*) FROM bookings
WHERE room_id = 123 AND
end_time > '2025-01-01 12:00' AND start_time < '2025-01-01 13:00';

-- If the previous query returned zero:
INSERT INTO bookings
(room_id, start_time, end_time, user_id)
VALUES (123, '2025-01-01 12:00', '2025-01-01 13:00', 666);

COMMIT;
Unfortunately, snapshot isolation does not prevent another user from concurrently inserting a conflicting meeting. In order to guarantee you won’t get scheduling conflicts, you once again need serializable isolation.
不幸的是，快照隔离并不能防止另一个用户同时插入冲突的会议。为了确保您不会遇到调度冲突，您再次需要可串行化隔离。

Multiplayer game
多人游戏
In Example 8-1, we used a lock to prevent lost updates (that is, making sure that two players can’t move the same figure at the same time). However, the lock doesn’t prevent players from moving two different figures to the same position on the board or potentially making some other move that violates the rules of the game. Depending on the kind of rule you are enforcing, you might be able to use a unique constraint, but otherwise you’re vulnerable to write skew.
在示例 8-1 中，我们使用锁来防止丢失更新（即确保两个玩家不能同时移动同一个棋子）。然而，锁并不能防止玩家将两个不同的棋子移动到棋盘上的同一位置，或者可能进行其他违反游戏规则的操作。根据你所执行的规则类型，你可能能够使用唯一约束，但否则你就容易受到写偏差的影响。

Claiming a username
声明用户名
On a website where each user has a unique username, two users may try to create accounts with the same username at the same time. You may use a transaction to check whether a name is taken and, if not, create an account with that name. However, like in the previous examples, that is not safe under snapshot isolation. Fortunately, a unique constraint is a simple solution here (the second transaction that tries to register the username will be aborted due to violating the constraint).
在一个每个用户都有唯一用户名的网站上，两个用户可能会同时尝试创建相同用户名的账户。您可以使用事务来检查一个名字是否被占用，如果没有，则创建一个该名字的账户。然而，正如之前的例子所示，这在快照隔离下并不安全。幸运的是，唯一约束在这里是一个简单的解决方案（第二个尝试注册该用户名的事务将因违反约束而被中止）。

Preventing double-spending
防止双重消费
A service that allows users to spend money or points needs to check that a user doesn’t spend more than they have. You might implement this by inserting a tentative spending item into a user’s account, listing all the items in the account, and checking that the sum is positive. With write skew, it could happen that two spending items are inserted concurrently that together cause the balance to go negative, but that neither transaction notices the other.
一个允许用户花费金钱或积分的服务需要检查用户是否没有超过他们的余额。您可以通过在用户的账户中插入一个暂定的消费项目，列出账户中的所有项目，并检查总和是否为正来实现这一点。在写偏斜的情况下，可能会发生两个消费项目同时插入，导致余额变为负数，但这两个事务都没有注意到对方。

Phantoms causing write skew
导致写偏斜的幻影

All of these examples follow a similar pattern:
所有这些例子遵循类似的模式：

A SELECT query checks whether some requirement is satisfied by searching for rows that match some search condition (there are at least two doctors on call, there are no existing bookings for that room at that time, the position on the board doesn’t already have another figure on it, the username isn’t already taken, there is still money in the account).
一个 SELECT 查询通过搜索匹配某些搜索条件的行来检查某些要求是否得到满足（至少有两个医生在值班，该时间段内该房间没有现有预订，董事会上的位置上没有其他棋子，用户名尚未被占用，账户中仍有余额）。

Depending on the result of the first query, the application code decides how to continue (perhaps to go ahead with the operation, or perhaps to report an error to the user and abort).
根据第一次查询的结果，应用程序代码决定如何继续（可能继续进行操作，或者向用户报告错误并中止）。

If the application decides to go ahead, it makes a write (INSERT, UPDATE, or DELETE) to the database and commits the transaction.
如果应用程序决定继续，它会向数据库进行写入（ INSERT 、 UPDATE 或 DELETE ）并提交事务。

The effect of this write changes the precondition of the decision of step 2. In other words, if you were to repeat the SELECT query from step 1 after committing the write, you would get a different result, because the write changed the set of rows matching the search condition (there is now one fewer doctor on call, the meeting room is now booked for that time, the position on the board is now taken by the figure that was moved, the username is now taken, there is now less money in the account).
此写入的效果改变了步骤 2 决策的前提条件。换句话说，如果在提交写入后重复步骤 1 中的 SELECT 查询，您将得到不同的结果，因为写入改变了与搜索条件匹配的行集（现在值班的医生少了一位，会议室现在已被预订，董事会的职位现在被移动的图形占据，用户名现在已被占用，账户中的钱现在减少了）。

The steps may occur in a different order. For example, you could first make the write, then the SELECT query, and finally decide whether to abort or commit based on the result of the query.
这些步骤可能以不同的顺序发生。例如，您可以先进行写入，然后进行 SELECT 查询，最后根据查询的结果决定是中止还是提交。

In the case of the doctor on call example, the row being modified in step 3 was one of the rows returned in step 1, so we could make the transaction safe and avoid write skew by locking the rows in step 1 (SELECT FOR UPDATE). However, the other four examples are different: they check for the absence of rows matching some search condition, and the write adds a row matching the same condition. If the query in step 1 doesn’t return any rows, SELECT FOR UPDATE can’t attach locks to anything [54].
在值班医生的例子中，步骤 3 中被修改的行是步骤 1 中返回的行之一，因此我们可以通过在步骤 1 中锁定这些行来确保事务的安全性并避免写偏斜（ SELECT FOR UPDATE ）。然而，其他四个例子则不同：它们检查是否没有行匹配某些搜索条件，而写操作则添加一行匹配相同条件。如果步骤 1 中的查询没有返回任何行， SELECT FOR UPDATE 就无法对任何内容加锁 [54]。

This effect, where a write in one transaction changes the result of a search query in another transaction, is called a phantom [4]. Snapshot isolation avoids phantoms in read-only queries, but in read-write transactions like the examples we discussed, phantoms can lead to particularly tricky cases of write skew. The SQL generated by ORMs is also prone to write skew [48, 49].
这种现象，即一个事务中的写操作改变了另一个事务中的搜索查询结果，被称为幻读 [4]。快照隔离可以避免只读查询中的幻读，但在我们讨论的读写事务中，幻读可能导致特别棘手的写偏斜情况。ORM 生成的 SQL 也容易出现写偏斜 [48, 49]。

Materializing conflicts
实现冲突

If the problem of phantoms is that there is no object to which we can attach the locks, perhaps we can artificially introduce a lock object into the database?
如果幻读的问题在于没有对象可以附加锁，那么我们是否可以在数据库中人为引入一个锁对象呢？

For example, in the meeting room booking case you could imagine creating a table of time slots and rooms. Each row in this table corresponds to a particular room for a particular time period (say, 15 minutes). You create rows for all possible combinations of rooms and time periods ahead of time, e.g. for the next six months.
例如，在会议室预订的案例中，你可以想象创建一个时间段和房间的表格。该表中的每一行对应于特定房间在特定时间段（例如，15 分钟）内的情况。你提前为所有可能的房间和时间段组合创建行，例如，为接下来的六个月。

Now a transaction that wants to create a booking can lock (SELECT FOR UPDATE) the rows in the table that correspond to the desired room and time period. After it has acquired the locks, it can check for overlapping bookings and insert a new booking as before. Note that the additional table isn’t used to store information about the booking—it’s purely a collection of locks which is used to prevent bookings on the same room and time range from being modified concurrently.
现在，一个想要创建预订的事务可以锁定（ SELECT FOR UPDATE ）表中对应于所需房间和时间段的行。在获取锁后，它可以检查是否有重叠的预订，并像之前一样插入新的预订。请注意，额外的表并不是用来存储预订信息的——它纯粹是一个锁的集合，用于防止对同一房间和时间范围的预订进行并发修改。

This approach is called materializing conflicts, because it takes a phantom and turns it into a lock conflict on a concrete set of rows that exist in the database [14]. Unfortunately, it can be hard and error-prone to figure out how to materialize conflicts, and it’s ugly to let a concurrency control mechanism leak into the application data model. For those reasons, materializing conflicts should be considered a last resort if no alternative is possible. A serializable isolation level is much preferable in most cases.
这种方法被称为物化冲突，因为它将一个幻影转变为数据库中一组具体行的锁冲突 [14]。不幸的是，弄清楚如何物化冲突可能很困难且容易出错，并且让并发控制机制渗透到应用程序数据模型中是很丑陋的。出于这些原因，物化冲突应被视为最后的手段，如果没有其他选择的话。在大多数情况下，可串行化的隔离级别更为可取。

Serializability
可串行化

In this chapter we have seen several examples of transactions that are prone to race conditions. Some race conditions are prevented by the read committed and snapshot isolation levels, but others are not. We encountered some particularly tricky examples with write skew and phantoms. It’s a sad situation:
在本章中，我们看到了一些容易发生竞争条件的事务示例。一些竞争条件通过已提交读取和快照隔离级别得以防止，但其他的则没有。我们遇到了一些特别棘手的例子，如写偏斜和幻影。这是一个悲惨的情况：

Isolation levels are hard to understand, and inconsistently implemented in different databases (e.g., the meaning of “repeatable read” varies significantly).
隔离级别难以理解，并且在不同的数据库中实现不一致（例如，“可重复读”的含义差异显著）。

If you look at your application code, it’s difficult to tell whether it is safe to run at a particular isolation level—especially in a large application, where you might not be aware of all the things that may be happening concurrently.
如果你查看你的应用程序代码，很难判断在特定的隔离级别下运行是否安全——尤其是在大型应用程序中，你可能并不知道所有可能同时发生的事情。

There are no good tools to help us detect race conditions. In principle, static analysis may help [33], but research techniques have not yet found their way into practical use. Testing for concurrency issues is hard, because they are usually nondeterministic—problems only occur if you get unlucky with the timing.
目前没有好的工具来帮助我们检测竞争条件。原则上，静态分析可能有所帮助 [ 33]，但研究技术尚未找到实际应用的途径。测试并发问题很困难，因为它们通常是非确定性的——问题只会在时机不巧时发生。

This is not a new problem—it has been like this since the 1970s, when weak isolation levels were first introduced [3]. All along, the answer from researchers has been simple: use serializable isolation!
这并不是一个新问题——自从 1970 年代首次引入弱隔离级别以来情况一直如此 [ 3]。研究人员一直给出的答案很简单：使用可串行化隔离！

Serializable isolation is the strongest isolation level. It guarantees that even though transactions may execute in parallel, the end result is the same as if they had executed one at a time, serially, without any concurrency. Thus, the database guarantees that if the transactions behave correctly when run individually, they continue to be correct when run concurrently—in other words, the database prevents all possible race conditions.
可串行化隔离是最强的隔离级别。它保证即使事务可能并行执行，最终结果也与它们一个接一个串行执行时的结果相同，没有任何并发。因此，数据库保证如果事务在单独运行时表现正确，那么在并发运行时也会继续正确——换句话说，数据库防止所有可能的竞争条件。

But if serializable isolation is so much better than the mess of weak isolation levels, then why isn’t everyone using it? To answer this question, we need to look at the options for implementing serializability, and how they perform. Most databases that provide serializability today use one of three techniques, which we will explore in the rest of this chapter:
但是，如果可串行化隔离比弱隔离级别的混乱要好得多，那么为什么不是每个人都在使用它呢？要回答这个问题，我们需要看看实现可串行化的选项，以及它们的性能。今天提供可串行化的大多数数据库使用三种技术中的一种，我们将在本章的其余部分进行探讨：

Literally executing transactions in a serial order (see “Actual Serial Execution”)
按串行顺序实际执行事务（见“实际串行执行”）

Two-phase locking (see “Two-Phase Locking (2PL)”), which for several decades was the only viable option
两阶段锁定（见“两阶段锁定（2PL）”），这是几十年来唯一可行的选项

Optimistic concurrency control techniques such as serializable snapshot isolation (see “Serializable Snapshot Isolation (SSI)”)
乐观并发控制技术，如可串行化快照隔离（见“可串行化快照隔离（SSI）”）

For now, we will discuss these techniques primarily in the context of single-node databases; in [Link to Come] we will examine how they can be generalized to transactions that involve multiple nodes in a distributed system.
目前，我们将主要在单节点数据库的上下文中讨论这些技术；在[链接即将到来]中，我们将研究它们如何推广到涉及分布式系统中多个节点的事务。

Actual Serial Execution
实际串行执行

The simplest way of avoiding concurrency problems is to remove the concurrency entirely: to execute only one transaction at a time, in serial order, on a single thread. By doing so, we completely sidestep the problem of detecting and preventing conflicts between transactions: the resulting isolation is by definition serializable.
避免并发问题的最简单方法是完全消除并发：在单个线程上按串行顺序一次只执行一个事务。通过这样做，我们完全避免了检测和防止事务之间冲突的问题：由此产生的隔离在定义上是可串行化的。

Even though this seems like an obvious idea, it was only in the 2000s that database designers decided that a single-threaded loop for executing transactions was feasible [55]. If multi-threaded concurrency was considered essential for getting good performance during the previous 30 years, what changed to make single-threaded execution possible?
尽管这看起来是一个显而易见的想法，但直到 2000 年代，数据库设计师才决定单线程循环执行事务是可行的。如果在过去的 30 年中，多线程并发被认为是获得良好性能的必要条件，那么是什么改变使得单线程执行成为可能？

Two developments caused this rethink:
两个发展促使了这种重新思考：

RAM became cheap enough that for many use cases it is now feasible to keep the entire active dataset in memory (see “Keeping everything in memory”). When all data that a transaction needs to access is in memory, transactions can execute much faster than if they have to wait for data to be loaded from disk.
RAM 变得足够便宜，以至于对于许多用例，现在在内存中保持整个活动数据集是可行的（见“将所有内容保留在内存中”）。当事务需要访问的所有数据都在内存中时，事务的执行速度比必须等待从磁盘加载数据时要快得多。

Database designers realized that OLTP transactions are usually short and only make a small number of reads and writes (see “Analytical versus Operational Systems”). By contrast, long-running analytic queries are typically read-only, so they can be run on a consistent snapshot (using snapshot isolation) outside of the serial execution loop.
数据库设计者意识到，OLTP 事务通常很短，并且只进行少量的读写操作（见“分析系统与操作系统”）。相比之下，长时间运行的分析查询通常是只读的，因此可以在一致的快照上运行（使用快照隔离），而不需要在串行执行循环中进行。

The approach of executing transactions serially is implemented in VoltDB/H-Store, Redis, and Datomic, for example [56, 57, 58]. A system designed for single-threaded execution can sometimes perform better than a system that supports concurrency, because it can avoid the coordination overhead of locking. However, its throughput is limited to that of a single CPU core. In order to make the most of that single thread, transactions need to be structured differently from their traditional form.
例如，VoltDB/H-Store、Redis 和 Datomic 等系统实现了串行执行事务的方法 [ 56, 57, 58]。为单线程执行设计的系统有时可以比支持并发的系统表现得更好，因为它可以避免锁定的协调开销。然而，它的吞吐量仅限于单个 CPU 核心的吞吐量。为了充分利用这个单线程，事务需要以不同于传统形式的方式进行结构化。

Encapsulating transactions in stored procedures
将事务封装在存储过程内

In the early days of databases, the intention was that a database transaction could encompass an entire flow of user activity. For example, booking an airline ticket is a multi-stage process (searching for routes, fares, and available seats; deciding on an itinerary; booking seats on each of the flights of the itinerary; entering passenger details; making payment). Database designers thought that it would be neat if that entire process was one transaction so that it could be committed atomically.
在数据库的早期阶段，设计的初衷是数据库事务可以涵盖整个用户活动的流程。例如，预订机票是一个多阶段的过程（搜索航线、票价和可用座位；决定行程；预订行程中每个航班的座位；输入乘客信息；进行支付）。数据库设计者认为，如果整个过程都作为一个事务来处理，那将是很好的，这样就可以原子性地提交。

Unfortunately, humans are very slow to make up their minds and respond. If a database transaction needs to wait for input from a user, the database needs to support a potentially huge number of concurrent transactions, most of them idle. Most databases cannot do that efficiently, and so almost all OLTP applications keep transactions short by avoiding interactively waiting for a user within a transaction. On the web, this means that a transaction is committed within the same HTTP request—​a transaction does not span multiple requests. A new HTTP request starts a new transaction.
不幸的是，人类在做决定和响应方面非常缓慢。如果一个数据库事务需要等待用户的输入，数据库就需要支持潜在的巨量并发事务，其中大多数处于闲置状态。大多数数据库无法高效地做到这一点，因此几乎所有的 OLTP 应用程序都通过避免在事务中交互式地等待用户来保持事务的简短。在网络上，这意味着一个事务在同一个 HTTP 请求内提交——一个事务不会跨越多个请求。一个新的 HTTP 请求会启动一个新的事务。

Even though the human has been taken out of the critical path, transactions have continued to be executed in an interactive client/server style, one statement at a time. An application makes a query, reads the result, perhaps makes another query depending on the result of the first query, and so on. The queries and results are sent back and forth between the application code (running on one machine) and the database server (on another machine).
尽管人类已被移出关键路径，但事务仍以交互式客户端/服务器的方式逐条执行。一个应用程序发出查询，读取结果，可能根据第一个查询的结果发出另一个查询，依此类推。查询和结果在运行于一台机器上的应用程序代码与运行于另一台机器上的数据库服务器之间来回传递。

In this interactive style of transaction, a lot of time is spent in network communication between the application and the database. If you were to disallow concurrency in the database and only process one transaction at a time, the throughput would be dreadful because the database would spend most of its time waiting for the application to issue the next query for the current transaction. In this kind of database, it’s necessary to process multiple transactions concurrently in order to get reasonable performance.
在这种交互式事务风格中，应用程序与数据库之间的网络通信消耗了大量时间。如果在数据库中禁止并发，只处理一个事务，那么吞吐量将会非常糟糕，因为数据库大部分时间都在等待应用程序发出当前事务的下一个查询。在这种数据库中，必须并发处理多个事务才能获得合理的性能。

For this reason, systems with single-threaded serial transaction processing don’t allow interactive multi-statement transactions. Instead, the application must either limit itself to transactions containing a single statement, or submit the entire transaction code to the database ahead of time, as a stored procedure [59].
因此，采用单线程串行事务处理的系统不允许交互式多语句事务。相反，应用程序必须限制自己仅使用包含单个语句的事务，或者提前将整个事务代码提交给数据库，作为存储过程 [ 59 ]。

The differences between interactive transactions and stored procedures is illustrated in Figure 8-9. Provided that all data required by a transaction is in memory, the stored procedure can execute very quickly, without waiting for any network or disk I/O.
交互式事务和存储过程之间的差异如图 8-9 所示。只要事务所需的所有数据都在内存中，存储过程就可以非常快速地执行，而无需等待任何网络或磁盘 I/O。

ddia 0809
Figure 8-9. The difference between an interactive transaction and a stored procedure (using the example transaction of Figure 8-8).
图 8-9. 交互式事务与存储过程之间的区别（使用图 8-8 的示例事务）。

Pros and cons of stored procedures
存储过程的优缺点

Stored procedures have existed for some time in relational databases, and they have been part of the SQL standard (SQL/PSM) since 1999. They have gained a somewhat bad reputation, for various reasons:
存储过程在关系数据库中存在已久，自 1999 年以来，它们已成为 SQL 标准（SQL/PSM）的一部分。由于各种原因，它们获得了相对较差的声誉：

Traditionally, each database vendor had its own language for stored procedures (Oracle has PL/SQL, SQL Server has T-SQL, PostgreSQL has PL/pgSQL, etc.). These languages haven’t kept up with developments in general-purpose programming languages, so they look quite ugly and archaic from today’s point of view, and they lack the ecosystem of libraries that you find with most programming languages.
传统上，每个数据库供应商都有自己用于存储过程的语言（Oracle 有 PL/SQL，SQL Server 有 T-SQL，PostgreSQL 有 PL/pgSQL 等）。这些语言没有跟上通用编程语言的发展，因此从今天的角度来看，它们显得相当丑陋和过时，并且缺乏大多数编程语言所拥有的库生态系统。

Code running in a database is difficult to manage: compared to an application server, it’s harder to debug, more awkward to keep in version control and deploy, trickier to test, and difficult to integrate with a metrics collection system for monitoring.
在数据库中运行的代码难以管理：与应用服务器相比，它更难调试，更难进行版本控制和部署，更难测试，并且难以与用于监控的指标收集系统集成。

A database is often much more performance-sensitive than an application server, because a single database instance is often shared by many application servers. A badly written stored procedure (e.g., using a lot of memory or CPU time) in a database can cause much more trouble than equivalent badly written code in an application server.
数据库通常比应用服务器对性能更敏感，因为单个数据库实例通常被多个应用服务器共享。在数据库中编写不当的存储过程（例如，使用大量内存或 CPU 时间）可能会造成比在应用服务器中编写不当的代码更大的麻烦。

In a multitenant system that allows tenants to write their own stored procedures, it’s a security risk to execute untrusted code in the same process as the database kernel [60].
在一个允许租户编写自己存储过程的多租户系统中，在与数据库内核同一进程中执行不受信任的代码是一个安全风险 [60]。

However, those issues can be overcome. Modern implementations of stored procedures have abandoned PL/SQL and use existing general-purpose programming languages instead: VoltDB uses Java or Groovy, Datomic uses Java or Clojure, Redis uses Lua, and MongoDB uses Javascript.
然而，这些问题是可以克服的。现代存储过程的实现已经放弃了 PL/SQL，而是使用现有的通用编程语言：VoltDB 使用 Java 或 Groovy，Datomic 使用 Java 或 Clojure，Redis 使用 Lua，MongoDB 使用 Javascript。

Stored procedures are also useful in cases where application logic can’t easily be embedded elsewhere. Applications that use GraphQL, for example, might directly expose their database through a GraphQL proxy. If the proxy doesn’t support complex validation logic, you can embed such logic directly in the database using a stored procedure. If the database doesn’t support stored procedures, you would have to deploy a validation service between the proxy and the database to do validation.
存储过程在应用逻辑无法轻易嵌入其他地方的情况下也很有用。例如，使用 GraphQL 的应用程序可能会通过 GraphQL 代理直接暴露其数据库。如果代理不支持复杂的验证逻辑，您可以直接在数据库中使用存储过程嵌入此类逻辑。如果数据库不支持存储过程，您将不得不在代理和数据库之间部署一个验证服务来进行验证。

With stored procedures and in-memory data, executing all transactions on a single thread becomes feasible. When stored procedures don’t need to wait for I/O and avoid the overhead of other concurrency control mechanisms, they can achieve quite good throughput on a single thread.
通过存储过程和内存数据，在单个线程上执行所有事务变得可行。当存储过程不需要等待 I/O 并避免其他并发控制机制的开销时，它们可以在单个线程上实现相当好的吞吐量。

VoltDB also uses stored procedures for replication: instead of copying a transaction’s writes from one node to another, it executes the same stored procedure on each replica. VoltDB therefore requires that stored procedures are deterministic (when run on different nodes, they must produce the same result). If a transaction needs to use the current date and time, for example, it must do so through special deterministic APIs (see “Durable Execution and Workflows” for more details on deterministic operations). This approach is called state machine replication, and we will return to it in [Link to Come].
VoltDB 也使用存储过程进行复制：它不是将一个节点的事务写入复制到另一个节点，而是在每个副本上执行相同的存储过程。因此，VoltDB 要求存储过程是确定性的（在不同节点上运行时，必须产生相同的结果）。例如，如果一个事务需要使用当前的日期和时间，它必须通过特殊的确定性 API 来实现（有关确定性操作的更多细节，请参见“持久执行和工作流”）。这种方法称为状态机复制，我们将在[链接即将到来]中回到这个话题。

Sharding
分片

Executing all transactions serially makes concurrency control much simpler, but limits the transaction throughput of the database to the speed of a single CPU core on a single machine. Read-only transactions may execute elsewhere, using snapshot isolation, but for applications with high write throughput, the single-threaded transaction processor can become a serious bottleneck.
串行执行所有事务使得并发控制变得简单，但将数据库的事务吞吐量限制在单台机器上单个 CPU 核心的速度。只读事务可以在其他地方执行，使用快照隔离，但对于高写入吞吐量的应用程序，单线程事务处理器可能成为一个严重的瓶颈。

In order to scale to multiple CPU cores, and multiple nodes, you can shard your data (see Chapter 7), which is supported in VoltDB. If you can find a way of sharding your dataset so that each transaction only needs to read and write data within a single shard, then each shard can have its own transaction processing thread running independently from the others. In this case, you can give each CPU core its own shard, which allows your transaction throughput to scale linearly with the number of CPU cores [57].
为了扩展到多个 CPU 核心和多个节点，您可以对数据进行分片（见第 7 章），这在 VoltDB 中得到了支持。如果您能找到一种方法对数据集进行分片，使得每个事务只需要在单个分片内读取和写入数据，那么每个分片可以有自己的事务处理线程，与其他分片独立运行。在这种情况下，您可以为每个 CPU 核心分配一个分片，这样可以使您的事务吞吐量随着 CPU 核心数量的增加而线性扩展。

However, for any transaction that needs to access multiple shards, the database must coordinate the transaction across all the shards that it touches. The stored procedure needs to be performed in lock-step across all shards to ensure serializability across the whole system.
然而，对于任何需要访问多个分片的事务，数据库必须协调所有涉及的分片之间的事务。存储过程需要在所有分片上以锁步方式执行，以确保整个系统的可串行性。

Since cross-shard transactions have additional coordination overhead, they are vastly slower than single-shard transactions. VoltDB reports a throughput of about 1,000 cross-shard writes per second, which is orders of magnitude below its single-shard throughput and cannot be increased by adding more machines [59]. More recent research has explored ways of making multi-shard transactions more scalable [61].
由于跨分片事务具有额外的协调开销，因此它们的速度远远慢于单分片事务。VoltDB 报告的跨分片写入吞吐量约为每秒 1,000 次，这比其单分片吞吐量低几个数量级，并且无法通过增加更多机器来提高[ 59]。最近的研究探讨了使多分片事务更具可扩展性的方法[ 61]。

Whether transactions can be single-shard depends very much on the structure of the data used by the application. Simple key-value data can often be sharded very easily, but data with multiple secondary indexes is likely to require a lot of cross-shard coordination (see “Sharding and Secondary Indexes”).
事务是否可以是单分片在很大程度上取决于应用程序使用的数据结构。简单的键值数据通常可以很容易地进行分片，但具有多个二级索引的数据可能需要大量的跨分片协调（见“分片和二级索引”）。

Summary of serial execution
串行执行的总结

Serial execution of transactions has become a viable way of achieving serializable isolation within certain constraints:
在某些限制条件下，事务的串行执行已成为实现可串行隔离的可行方式：

Every transaction must be small and fast, because it takes only one slow transaction to stall all transaction processing.
每个事务必须小且快，因为只需一个慢事务就能阻塞所有事务处理。

It is most appropriate in situations where the active dataset can fit in memory. Rarely accessed data could potentially be moved to disk, but if it needed to be accessed in a single-threaded transaction, the system would get very slow.
在活动数据集可以适合内存的情况下最为合适。很少访问的数据可以移动到磁盘，但如果需要在单线程事务中访问，系统会变得非常慢。

Write throughput must be low enough to be handled on a single CPU core, or else transactions need to be sharded without requiring cross-shard coordination.
写入吞吐量必须足够低，以便在单个 CPU 核心上处理，否则事务需要分片，而不需要跨分片协调。

Cross-shard transactions are possible, but their throughput is hard to scale.
跨分片事务是可能的，但它们的吞吐量很难扩展。

Two-Phase Locking (2PL)
两阶段锁定（2PL）

For around 30 years, there was only one widely used algorithm for serializability in databases: two-phase locking (2PL), sometimes called strong strict two-phase locking (SS2PL) to distinguish it from other variants of 2PL.
在大约 30 年的时间里，数据库中只有一种广泛使用的可串行化算法：两阶段锁定（2PL），有时称为强严格两阶段锁定（SS2PL），以区别于 2PL 的其他变体。

2PL is not 2PC
2PL 不是 2PC

Note that while two-phase locking (2PL) sounds very similar to two-phase commit (2PC), they are completely different things. We will discuss 2PC in [Link to Come].
请注意，虽然两阶段锁定（2PL）听起来与两阶段提交（2PC）非常相似，但它们是完全不同的概念。我们将在[链接即将到来]中讨论 2PC。

We saw previously that locks are often used to prevent dirty writes (see “No dirty writes”): if two transactions concurrently try to write to the same object, the lock ensures that the second writer must wait until the first one has finished its transaction (aborted or committed) before it may continue.
我们之前看到，锁通常用于防止脏写（见“无脏写”）：如果两个事务同时尝试写入同一个对象，锁确保第二个写入者必须等到第一个写入者完成其事务（无论是中止还是提交）后才能继续。

Two-phase locking is similar, but makes the lock requirements much stronger. Several transactions are allowed to concurrently read the same object as long as nobody is writing to it. But as soon as anyone wants to write (modify or delete) an object, exclusive access is required:
两阶段锁定类似，但对锁的要求更为严格。多个事务可以同时读取同一个对象，只要没有人对其进行写操作。但一旦有人想要写（修改或删除）一个对象，就需要独占访问：

If transaction A has read an object and transaction B wants to write to that object, B must wait until A commits or aborts before it can continue. (This ensures that B can’t change the object unexpectedly behind A’s back.)
如果事务 A 已经读取了一个对象，而事务 B 想要对该对象进行写操作，B 必须等到 A 提交或中止后才能继续。（这确保了 B 不能在 A 不知情的情况下意外更改该对象。）

If transaction A has written an object and transaction B wants to read that object, B must wait until A commits or aborts before it can continue. (Reading an old version of the object, like in Figure 8-4, is not acceptable under 2PL.)
如果事务 A 已经写入了一个对象，而事务 B 想要读取该对象，B 必须等到 A 提交或中止后才能继续。（在 2PL 下，读取对象的旧版本，如图 8-4 所示，是不可接受的。）

In 2PL, writers don’t just block other writers; they also block readers and vice versa. Snapshot isolation has the mantra readers never block writers, and writers never block readers (see “Multi-version concurrency control (MVCC)”), which captures this key difference between snapshot isolation and two-phase locking. On the other hand, because 2PL provides serializability, it protects against all the race conditions discussed earlier, including lost updates and write skew.
在 2PL 中，写入者不仅会阻止其他写入者；他们还会阻止读者，反之亦然。快照隔离的口号是读者从不阻止写入者，写入者从不阻止读者（见“多版本并发控制（MVCC）”），这捕捉了快照隔离和两阶段锁定之间的关键区别。另一方面，由于 2PL 提供了可串行化性，它保护了之前讨论的所有竞争条件，包括丢失更新和写偏斜。

Implementation of two-phase locking
两阶段锁定的实现

2PL is used by the serializable isolation level in MySQL (InnoDB) and SQL Server, and the repeatable read isolation level in Db2 [29].
2PL 被 MySQL（InnoDB）和 SQL Server 中的可串行化隔离级别使用，以及 Db2 中的可重复读隔离级别[29]。

The blocking of readers and writers is implemented by having a lock on each object in the database. The lock can either be in shared mode or in exclusive mode (also known as a multi-reader single-writer lock). The lock is used as follows:
读者和写入者的阻塞是通过对数据库中每个对象加锁来实现的。锁可以是共享模式或独占模式（也称为多读者单写者锁）。锁的使用方式如下：

If a transaction wants to read an object, it must first acquire the lock in shared mode. Several transactions are allowed to hold the lock in shared mode simultaneously, but if another transaction already has an exclusive lock on the object, these transactions must wait.
如果一个事务想要读取一个对象，它必须首先以共享模式获取锁。多个事务可以同时以共享模式持有锁，但如果另一个事务已经对该对象拥有独占锁，这些事务必须等待。

If a transaction wants to write to an object, it must first acquire the lock in exclusive mode. No other transaction may hold the lock at the same time (either in shared or in exclusive mode), so if there is any existing lock on the object, the transaction must wait.
如果一个事务想要写入一个对象，它必须首先以独占模式获取锁。此时没有其他事务可以同时持有该锁（无论是共享模式还是独占模式），因此如果对象上已经存在锁，事务必须等待。

If a transaction first reads and then writes an object, it may upgrade its shared lock to an exclusive lock. The upgrade works the same as getting an exclusive lock directly.
如果一个事务先读取然后写入一个对象，它可以将其共享锁升级为独占锁。升级的过程与直接获取独占锁是一样的。

After a transaction has acquired the lock, it must continue to hold the lock until the end of the transaction (commit or abort). This is where the name “two-phase” comes from: the first phase (while the transaction is executing) is when the locks are acquired, and the second phase (at the end of the transaction) is when all the locks are released.
在一个事务获取锁后，它必须继续持有该锁直到事务结束（提交或中止）。这就是“二阶段”名称的由来：第一阶段（当事务正在执行时）是获取锁的阶段，第二阶段（在事务结束时）是释放所有锁的阶段。

Since so many locks are in use, it can happen quite easily that transaction A is stuck waiting for transaction B to release its lock, and vice versa. This situation is called deadlock. The database automatically detects deadlocks between transactions and aborts one of them so that the others can make progress. The aborted transaction needs to be retried by the application.
由于有如此多的锁在使用中，事务 A 很容易被卡住，等待事务 B 释放其锁，反之亦然。这种情况被称为死锁。数据库会自动检测事务之间的死锁，并中止其中一个事务，以便其他事务能够继续进行。被中止的事务需要由应用程序重新尝试。

Performance of two-phase locking
二阶段锁定的性能

The big downside of two-phase locking, and the reason why it hasn’t been used by everybody since the 1970s, is performance: transaction throughput and response times of queries are significantly worse under two-phase locking than under weak isolation.
两阶段锁定的一个重大缺点，以及自 1970 年代以来并没有被所有人使用的原因，是性能：在两阶段锁定下，事务吞吐量和查询响应时间明显比在弱隔离下要差。

This is partly due to the overhead of acquiring and releasing all those locks, but more importantly due to reduced concurrency. By design, if two concurrent transactions try to do anything that may in any way result in a race condition, one has to wait for the other to complete.
这部分是由于获取和释放所有这些锁的开销，但更重要的是由于并发性降低。根据设计，如果两个并发事务尝试执行任何可能导致竞争条件的操作，其中一个必须等待另一个完成。

For example, if you have a transaction that needs to read an entire table (e.g. a backup, analytics query, or integrity check, as discussed in “Snapshot Isolation and Repeatable Read”), that transaction has to take a shared lock on the entire table. Therefore, the reading transaction first has to wait until all in-progress transactions writing to that table have completed; then, while the whole table is being read (which may take a long time on a large table), all other transactions that want to write to that table are blocked until the big read-only transaction commits. In effect, the database becomes unavailable for writes for an extended time.
例如，如果您有一个需要读取整个表的事务（例如备份、分析查询或完整性检查，如“快照隔离和可重复读”中所讨论的），该事务必须对整个表进行共享锁定。因此，读取事务首先必须等待所有正在进行的写入该表的事务完成；然后，在整个表被读取的过程中（在大型表上可能需要很长时间），所有其他想要写入该表的事务都被阻塞，直到这个大型只读事务提交。实际上，数据库在较长时间内变得无法进行写入。

For this reason, databases running 2PL can have quite unstable latencies, and they can be very slow at high percentiles (see “Describing Performance”) if there is contention in the workload. It may take just one slow transaction, or one transaction that accesses a lot of data and acquires many locks, to cause the rest of the system to grind to a halt.
因此，运行 2PL 的数据库可能会有相当不稳定的延迟，并且在高百分位时（参见“描述性能”）如果工作负载中存在争用，它们可能会非常缓慢。可能只需一个慢事务，或一个访问大量数据并获取许多锁的事务，就会导致系统的其余部分停滞不前。

Although deadlocks can happen with the lock-based read committed isolation level, they occur much more frequently under 2PL serializable isolation (depending on the access patterns of your transaction). This can be an additional performance problem: when a transaction is aborted due to deadlock and is retried, it needs to do its work all over again. If deadlocks are frequent, this can mean significant wasted effort.
尽管在基于锁的读已提交隔离级别下可能会发生死锁，但在 2PL 可串行化隔离级别下，它们发生的频率要高得多（这取决于事务的访问模式）。这可能是一个额外的性能问题：当事务因死锁而中止并重试时，它需要重新执行所有工作。如果死锁频繁发生，这可能意味着显著的资源浪费。

Predicate locks
谓词锁

In the preceding description of locks, we glossed over a subtle but important detail. In “Phantoms causing write skew” we discussed the problem of phantoms—that is, one transaction changing the results of another transaction’s search query. A database with serializable isolation must prevent phantoms.
在前面的锁描述中，我们略过了一个微妙但重要的细节。在“导致写偏差的幻影”中，我们讨论了幻影的问题——即一个事务改变了另一个事务搜索查询的结果。具有可串行化隔离的数据库必须防止幻影的出现。

In the meeting room booking example this means that if one transaction has searched for existing bookings for a room within a certain time window (see Example 8-2), another transaction is not allowed to concurrently insert or update another booking for the same room and time range. (It’s okay to concurrently insert bookings for other rooms, or for the same room at a different time that doesn’t affect the proposed booking.)
在会议室预订的例子中，这意味着如果一个事务在某个时间窗口内搜索了某个房间的现有预订（见示例 8-2），则另一个事务不允许同时插入或更新同一房间和时间范围的其他预订。（同时插入其他房间的预订，或在不同时间插入同一房间的预订是可以的，只要不影响提议的预订。）

How do we implement this? Conceptually, we need a predicate lock [4]. It works similarly to the shared/exclusive lock described earlier, but rather than belonging to a particular object (e.g., one row in a table), it belongs to all objects that match some search condition, such as:
我们如何实现这一点？从概念上讲，我们需要一个谓词锁 [4]。它的工作方式类似于前面描述的共享/独占锁，但它并不属于特定对象（例如，表中的一行），而是属于所有匹配某些搜索条件的对象，例如：

SELECT \* FROM bookings
WHERE room_id = 123 AND
end_time > '2025-01-01 12:00' AND
start_time < '2025-01-01 13:00';
A predicate lock restricts access as follows:
谓词锁的访问限制如下：

If transaction A wants to read objects matching some condition, like in that SELECT query, it must acquire a shared-mode predicate lock on the conditions of the query. If another transaction B currently has an exclusive lock on any object matching those conditions, A must wait until B releases its lock before it is allowed to make its query.
如果事务 A 想要读取匹配某些条件的对象，比如在那个 SELECT 查询中，它必须在查询条件上获取一个共享模式的谓词锁。如果另一个事务 B 当前对任何匹配这些条件的对象持有独占锁，A 必须等到 B 释放其锁后才能进行查询。

If transaction A wants to insert, update, or delete any object, it must first check whether either the old or the new value matches any existing predicate lock. If there is a matching predicate lock held by transaction B, then A must wait until B has committed or aborted before it can continue.
如果事务 A 想要插入、更新或删除任何对象，它必须首先检查旧值或新值是否与任何现有的谓词锁匹配。如果事务 B 持有匹配的谓词锁，那么 A 必须等待 B 提交或中止后才能继续。

The key idea here is that a predicate lock applies even to objects that do not yet exist in the database, but which might be added in the future (phantoms). If two-phase locking includes predicate locks, the database prevents all forms of write skew and other race conditions, and so its isolation becomes serializable.
这里的关键思想是，谓词锁即使对数据库中尚不存在的对象也适用，但这些对象可能在未来被添加（幻影）。如果两阶段锁定包括谓词锁，数据库将防止所有形式的写偏斜和其他竞争条件，因此其隔离性变得可序列化。

Index-range locks
索引范围锁

Unfortunately, predicate locks do not perform well: if there are many locks by active transactions, checking for matching locks becomes time-consuming. For that reason, most databases with 2PL actually implement index-range locking (also known as next-key locking), which is a simplified approximation of predicate locking [52, 62].
不幸的是，谓词锁的性能并不好：如果活跃事务有很多锁，检查匹配锁会变得耗时。因此，大多数使用 2PL 的数据库实际上实现了索引范围锁定（也称为下一个键锁定），这是一种对谓词锁定的简化近似。

It’s safe to simplify a predicate by making it match a greater set of objects. For example, if you have a predicate lock for bookings of room 123 between noon and 1 p.m., you can approximate it by locking bookings for room 123 at any time, or you can approximate it by locking all rooms (not just room 123) between noon and 1 p.m. This is safe because any write that matches the original predicate will definitely also match the approximations.
通过使谓词匹配更大集合的对象来简化谓词是安全的。例如，如果你有一个针对中午 12 点到下午 1 点期间房间 123 的预订的谓词锁，你可以通过锁定房间 123 在任何时间的预订来近似它，或者你可以通过锁定中午 12 点到下午 1 点期间的所有房间（不仅仅是房间 123）来近似它。这是安全的，因为任何匹配原始谓词的写入肯定也会匹配这些近似值。

In the room bookings database you would probably have an index on the room_id column, and/or indexes on start_time and end_time (otherwise the preceding query would be very slow on a large database):
在房间预订数据库中，您可能会在 room_id 列上建立索引，和/或在 start_time 和 end_time 上建立索引（否则在大型数据库上，前面的查询会非常慢）：

Say your index is on room_id, and the database uses this index to find existing bookings for room 123. Now the database can simply attach a shared lock to this index entry, indicating that a transaction has searched for bookings of room 123.
假设您的索引在 room_id 上，数据库使用此索引查找房间 123 的现有预订。现在，数据库可以简单地在此索引条目上附加一个共享锁，表示一个事务已搜索房间 123 的预订。

Alternatively, if the database uses a time-based index to find existing bookings, it can attach a shared lock to a range of values in that index, indicating that a transaction has searched for bookings that overlap with the time period of noon to 1 p.m. on January 1, 2025.
或者，如果数据库使用基于时间的索引来查找现有的预订，它可以在该索引中的一系列值上附加一个共享锁，表示一个事务已经搜索了与 2025 年 1 月 1 日中午 12 点到下午 1 点的时间段重叠的预订。

Either way, an approximation of the search condition is attached to one of the indexes. Now, if another transaction wants to insert, update, or delete a booking for the same room and/or an overlapping time period, it will have to update the same part of the index. In the process of doing so, it will encounter the shared lock, and it will be forced to wait until the lock is released.
无论如何，搜索条件的近似值会附加到其中一个索引上。现在，如果另一个事务想要插入、更新或删除同一房间和/或重叠时间段的预订，它将不得不更新索引的同一部分。在此过程中，它会遇到共享锁，并被迫等待直到锁被释放。

This provides effective protection against phantoms and write skew. Index-range locks are not as precise as predicate locks would be (they may lock a bigger range of objects than is strictly necessary to maintain serializability), but since they have much lower overheads, they are a good compromise.
这有效地防止了幻读和写 skew。索引范围锁的精确度不如谓词锁（它们可能会锁定比维持可串行性所严格必要的更大范围的对象），但由于它们的开销要低得多，因此是一个很好的折中方案。

If there is no suitable index where a range lock can be attached, the database can fall back to a shared lock on the entire table. This will not be good for performance, since it will stop all other transactions writing to the table, but it’s a safe fallback position.
如果没有合适的索引可以附加范围锁，数据库可以退回到对整个表的共享锁。这对性能不利，因为它会阻止所有其他事务写入该表，但这是一个安全的后备方案。

Serializable Snapshot Isolation (SSI)
可串行快照隔离（SSI）

This chapter has painted a bleak picture of concurrency control in databases. On the one hand, we have implementations of serializability that don’t perform well (two-phase locking) or don’t scale well (serial execution). On the other hand, we have weak isolation levels that have good performance, but are prone to various race conditions (lost updates, write skew, phantoms, etc.). Are serializable isolation and good performance fundamentally at odds with each other?
本章描绘了数据库中并发控制的严峻形势。一方面，我们有性能不佳的可串行化实现（两阶段锁定）或扩展性差的实现（串行执行）。另一方面，我们有性能良好的弱隔离级别，但容易出现各种竞争条件（丢失更新、写 skew、幻读等）。可串行化隔离和良好性能之间是否根本存在矛盾？

It seems not: an algorithm called serializable snapshot isolation (SSI) provides full serializability with only a small performance penalty compared to snapshot isolation. SSI is comparatively new: it was first described in 2008 [51, 63].
似乎不是：一种称为可序列化快照隔离（SSI）的算法提供了完全的可序列化性，与快照隔离相比，仅有小的性能损失。SSI 相对较新：它首次在 2008 年被描述[51, 63]。

Today SSI and similar algorithms are used in single-node databases (the serializable isolation level in PostgreSQL [52], SQL Server’s In-Memory OLTP/Hekaton [64], and HyPer [65]), distributed databases (CockroachDB [5] and FoundationDB [8]), and embedded storage engines such as BadgerDB.
今天，SSI 和类似的算法被用于单节点数据库（PostgreSQL 中的可序列化隔离级别[52]，SQL Server 的内存 OLTP/Hekaton[64]，以及 HyPer[65]），分布式数据库（CockroachDB[5]和 FoundationDB[8]），以及嵌入式存储引擎如 BadgerDB。

Pessimistic versus optimistic concurrency control
悲观与乐观并发控制

Two-phase locking is a so-called pessimistic concurrency control mechanism: it is based on the principle that if anything might possibly go wrong (as indicated by a lock held by another transaction), it’s better to wait until the situation is safe again before doing anything. It is like mutual exclusion, which is used to protect data structures in multi-threaded programming.
两阶段锁定是一种所谓的悲观并发控制机制：它基于这样的原则，即如果任何事情可能出错（如另一个事务持有的锁所示），那么最好等到情况再次安全后再采取任何行动。这就像互斥，用于保护多线程编程中的数据结构。

Serial execution is, in a sense, pessimistic to the extreme: it is essentially equivalent to each transaction having an exclusive lock on the entire database (or one shard of the database) for the duration of the transaction. We compensate for the pessimism by making each transaction very fast to execute, so it only needs to hold the “lock” for a short time.
串行执行在某种意义上是极端的悲观：它本质上等同于每个事务在事务执行期间对整个数据库（或数据库的一个分片）拥有独占锁。我们通过使每个事务的执行非常快速来补偿这种悲观，因此它只需要短时间持有“锁”。

By contrast, serializable snapshot isolation is an optimistic concurrency control technique. Optimistic in this context means that instead of blocking if something potentially dangerous happens, transactions continue anyway, in the hope that everything will turn out all right. When a transaction wants to commit, the database checks whether anything bad happened (i.e., whether isolation was violated); if so, the transaction is aborted and has to be retried. Only transactions that executed serializably are allowed to commit.
相比之下，可串行快照隔离是一种乐观的并发控制技术。在这个上下文中，乐观意味着如果发生潜在危险的事情，事务不会被阻塞，而是继续执行，希望一切都会顺利。当一个事务想要提交时，数据库会检查是否发生了任何不好的事情（即是否违反了隔离）；如果发生了，事务将被中止并需要重试。只有以串行方式执行的事务才被允许提交。

Optimistic concurrency control is an old idea [66], and its advantages and disadvantages have been debated for a long time [67]. It performs badly if there is high contention (many transactions trying to access the same objects), as this leads to a high proportion of transactions needing to abort. If the system is already close to its maximum throughput, the additional transaction load from retried transactions can make performance worse.
乐观并发控制是一个古老的概念 [66]，其优缺点已经被讨论了很长时间 [67]。如果存在高争用（许多事务试图访问相同的对象），它的表现会很差，因为这会导致大量事务需要中止。如果系统已经接近其最大吞吐量，重试事务带来的额外负载可能会使性能变得更糟。

However, if there is enough spare capacity, and if contention between transactions is not too high, optimistic concurrency control techniques tend to perform better than pessimistic ones. Contention can be reduced with commutative atomic operations: for example, if several transactions concurrently want to increment a counter, it doesn’t matter in which order the increments are applied (as long as the counter isn’t read in the same transaction), so the concurrent increments can all be applied without conflicting.
然而，如果有足够的备用容量，并且事务之间的争用不是太高，乐观并发控制技术往往比悲观的表现更好。通过可交换的原子操作可以减少争用：例如，如果多个事务同时想要增加一个计数器，那么增加的顺序并不重要（只要在同一事务中不读取计数器），因此可以在不冲突的情况下应用所有并发的增加操作。

As the name suggests, SSI is based on snapshot isolation—that is, all reads within a transaction are made from a consistent snapshot of the database (see “Snapshot Isolation and Repeatable Read”). On top of snapshot isolation, SSI adds an algorithm for detecting serialization conflicts among reads and writes, and determining which transactions to abort.
如其名所示，SSI 基于快照隔离——也就是说，事务中的所有读取都是基于数据库的一致快照（参见“快照隔离和可重复读取”）。在快照隔离的基础上，SSI 增加了一种算法，用于检测读取和写入之间的序列化冲突，并确定哪些事务需要中止。

Decisions based on an outdated premise
基于过时前提的决策

When we previously discussed write skew in snapshot isolation (see “Write Skew and Phantoms”), we observed a recurring pattern: a transaction reads some data from the database, examines the result of the query, and decides to take some action (write to the database) based on the result that it saw. However, under snapshot isolation, the result from the original query may no longer be up-to-date by the time the transaction commits, because the data may have been modified in the meantime.
当我们之前讨论快照隔离中的写偏差时（参见“写偏差和幻影”），我们观察到一个反复出现的模式：一个事务从数据库中读取一些数据，检查查询结果，并根据它看到的结果决定采取某些行动（写入数据库）。然而，在快照隔离下，原始查询的结果在事务提交时可能已经不再是最新的，因为数据可能在此期间被修改。

Put another way, the transaction is taking an action based on a premise (a fact that was true at the beginning of the transaction, e.g., “There are currently two doctors on call”). Later, when the transaction wants to commit, the original data may have changed—the premise may no longer be true.
换句话说，事务是基于一个前提（在事务开始时为真的事实，例如，“目前有两位医生在值班”）采取行动的。后来，当事务想要提交时，原始数据可能已经改变——这个前提可能不再成立。

When the application makes a query (e.g., “How many doctors are currently on call?”), the database doesn’t know how the application logic uses the result of that query. To be safe, the database needs to assume that any change in the query result (the premise) means that writes in that transaction may be invalid. In other words, there may be a causal dependency between the queries and the writes in the transaction. In order to provide serializable isolation, the database must detect situations in which a transaction may have acted on an outdated premise and abort the transaction in that case.
当应用程序发出查询时（例如，“当前有多少医生在值班？”），数据库并不知道应用程序逻辑如何使用该查询的结果。为了安全起见，数据库需要假设查询结果的任何变化（前提）意味着该事务中的写入可能是无效的。换句话说，查询和事务中的写入之间可能存在因果依赖关系。为了提供可串行化的隔离，数据库必须检测事务可能基于过时前提进行操作的情况，并在这种情况下中止该事务。

How does the database know if a query result might have changed? There are two cases to consider:
数据库如何知道查询结果是否可能已更改？需要考虑两种情况：

Detecting reads of a stale MVCC object version (uncommitted write occurred before the read)
检测读取过时的 MVCC 对象版本（未提交的写入发生在读取之前）

Detecting writes that affect prior reads (the write occurs after the read)
检测影响先前读取的写入（写入发生在读取之后）

Detecting stale MVCC reads
检测过时的 MVCC 读取

Recall that snapshot isolation is usually implemented by multi-version concurrency control (MVCC; see “Multi-version concurrency control (MVCC)”). When a transaction reads from a consistent snapshot in an MVCC database, it ignores writes that were made by any other transactions that hadn’t yet committed at the time when the snapshot was taken.
请记住，快照隔离通常通过多版本并发控制（MVCC；参见“多版本并发控制（MVCC）”）来实现。当一个事务从 MVCC 数据库中的一致快照读取时，它会忽略在快照生成时尚未提交的其他事务所做的写入。

In Figure 8-10, transaction 43 sees Alice as having on_call = true, because transaction 42 (which modified Alice’s on-call status) is uncommitted. However, by the time transaction 43 wants to commit, transaction 42 has already committed. This means that the write that was ignored when reading from the consistent snapshot has now taken effect, and transaction 43’s premise is no longer true. Things get even more complicated when a writer inserts data that didn’t exist before (see “Phantoms causing write skew”). We’ll discuss detecting phantom writes for SSI in “Detecting writes that affect prior reads”.
在图 8-10 中，事务 43 看到 Alice 的状态为 on_call = true ，因为事务 42（修改了 Alice 的待命状态）尚未提交。然而，当事务 43 想要提交时，事务 42 已经提交。这意味着在从一致快照读取时被忽略的写入现在已经生效，事务 43 的前提不再成立。当一个写入者插入之前不存在的数据时，情况变得更加复杂（参见“导致写偏斜的幻影”）。我们将在“检测影响先前读取的写入”中讨论检测幻影写入的 SSI。

ddia 0810
Figure 8-10. Detecting when a transaction reads outdated values from an MVCC snapshot.
图 8-10. 检测事务从 MVCC 快照中读取过时值的情况。

In order to prevent this anomaly, the database needs to track when a transaction ignores another transaction’s writes due to MVCC visibility rules. When the transaction wants to commit, the database checks whether any of the ignored writes have now been committed. If so, the transaction must be aborted.
为了防止这种异常，数据库需要跟踪何时由于 MVCC 可见性规则而忽略另一个事务的写入。当事务想要提交时，数据库检查是否有任何被忽略的写入现在已被提交。如果是这样，事务必须被中止。

Why wait until committing? Why not abort transaction 43 immediately when the stale read is detected? Well, if transaction 43 was a read-only transaction, it wouldn’t need to be aborted, because there is no risk of write skew. At the time when transaction 43 makes its read, the database doesn’t yet know whether that transaction is going to later perform a write. Moreover, transaction 42 may yet abort or may still be uncommitted at the time when transaction 43 is committed, and so the read may turn out not to have been stale after all. By avoiding unnecessary aborts, SSI preserves snapshot isolation’s support for long-running reads from a consistent snapshot.
为什么要等到提交时再处理？为什么不在检测到过时读取时立即中止事务 43？如果事务 43 是只读事务，就不需要中止，因为没有写偏差的风险。在事务 43 进行读取时，数据库尚不知道该事务是否会在后续执行写操作。此外，事务 42 在事务 43 提交时可能仍会中止或仍未提交，因此读取结果最终可能并没有过时。通过避免不必要的中止，SSI 保持了快照隔离对长时间运行的读取的支持，这些读取来自一致的快照。

Detecting writes that affect prior reads
检测影响先前读取的写操作

The second case to consider is when another transaction modifies data after it has been read. This case is illustrated in Figure 8-11.
第二种需要考虑的情况是另一个事务在数据被读取后修改了数据。此情况在图 8-11 中进行了说明。

ddia 0811
Figure 8-11. In serializable snapshot isolation, detecting when one transaction modifies another transaction’s reads.
图 8-11。在可序列化快照隔离中，检测一个事务何时修改另一个事务的读取。

In the context of two-phase locking we discussed index-range locks (see “Index-range locks”), which allow the database to lock access to all rows matching some search query, such as WHERE shift_id = 1234. We can use a similar technique here, except that SSI locks don’t block other transactions.
在我们讨论的两阶段锁定的背景下，我们提到了索引范围锁（见“索引范围锁”），它允许数据库锁定访问所有匹配某些搜索查询的行，例如 WHERE shift_id = 1234 。我们可以在这里使用类似的技术，只是 SSI 锁不会阻止其他事务。

In Figure 8-11, transactions 42 and 43 both search for on-call doctors during shift 1234. If there is an index on shift_id, the database can use the index entry 1234 to record the fact that transactions 42 and 43 read this data. (If there is no index, this information can be tracked at the table level.) This information only needs to be kept for a while: after a transaction has finished (committed or aborted), and all concurrent transactions have finished, the database can forget what data it read.
在图 8-11 中，事务 42 和 43 都在班次 1234 中搜索值班医生。如果在 shift_id 上有索引，数据库可以使用索引条目 1234 来记录事务 42 和 43 读取此数据的事实。（如果没有索引，这些信息可以在表级别进行跟踪。）这些信息只需要保留一段时间：在一个事务完成（提交或中止）后，以及所有并发事务完成后，数据库可以忘记它读取了哪些数据。

When a transaction writes to the database, it must look in the indexes for any other transactions that have recently read the affected data. This process is similar to acquiring a write lock on the affected key range, but rather than blocking until the readers have committed, the lock acts as a tripwire: it simply notifies the transactions that the data they read may no longer be up to date.
当一个事务向数据库写入时，它必须在索引中查找任何最近读取了受影响数据的其他事务。这个过程类似于在受影响的键范围上获取写锁，但与其阻塞直到读取者提交不同，这个锁的作用是作为一个触发器：它只是通知事务它们读取的数据可能不再是最新的。

In Figure 8-11, transaction 43 notifies transaction 42 that its prior read is outdated, and vice versa. Transaction 42 is first to commit, and it is successful: although transaction 43’s write affected 42, 43 hasn’t yet committed, so the write has not yet taken effect. However, when transaction 43 wants to commit, the conflicting write from 42 has already been committed, so 43 must abort.
在图 8-11 中，事务 43 通知事务 42 它之前的读取已过时，反之亦然。事务 42 首先提交，并且成功了：尽管事务 43 的写入影响了 42，但 43 尚未提交，因此写入尚未生效。然而，当事务 43 想要提交时，来自 42 的冲突写入已经提交，因此 43 必须中止。

Performance of serializable snapshot isolation
可串行快照隔离的性能

As always, many engineering details affect how well an algorithm works in practice. For example, one trade-off is the granularity at which transactions’ reads and writes are tracked. If the database keeps track of each transaction’s activity in great detail, it can be precise about which transactions need to abort, but the bookkeeping overhead can become significant. Less detailed tracking is faster, but may lead to more transactions being aborted than strictly necessary.
与往常一样，许多工程细节会影响算法在实践中的表现。例如，一个权衡是跟踪事务读取和写入的粒度。如果数据库详细记录每个事务的活动，它可以准确判断哪些事务需要中止，但记账开销可能会变得相当大。较少的详细跟踪速度更快，但可能导致比严格必要的更多事务被中止。

In some cases, it’s okay for a transaction to read information that was overwritten by another transaction: depending on what else happened, it’s sometimes possible to prove that the result of the execution is nevertheless serializable. PostgreSQL uses this theory to reduce the number of unnecessary aborts [14, 52].
在某些情况下，事务读取被另一个事务覆盖的信息是可以接受的：根据其他发生的事情，有时可以证明执行的结果仍然是可串行化的。PostgreSQL 利用这一理论来减少不必要的中止数量 [ 14, 52]。

Compared to two-phase locking, the big advantage of serializable snapshot isolation is that one transaction doesn’t need to block waiting for locks held by another transaction. Like under snapshot isolation, writers don’t block readers, and vice versa. This design principle makes query latency much more predictable and less variable. In particular, read-only queries can run on a consistent snapshot without requiring any locks, which is very appealing for read-heavy workloads.
与两阶段锁定相比，可串行化快照隔离的一个主要优势是一个事务不需要等待另一个事务持有的锁而被阻塞。与快照隔离下的情况一样，写入者不会阻塞读取者，反之亦然。这一设计原则使得查询延迟变得更加可预测且变化更小。特别是，只读查询可以在一致的快照上运行，而不需要任何锁，这对于读密集型工作负载非常有吸引力。

Compared to serial execution, serializable snapshot isolation is not limited to the throughput of a single CPU core: for example, FoundationDB distributes the detection of serialization conflicts across multiple machines, allowing it to scale to very high throughput. Even though data may be sharded across multiple machines, transactions can read and write data in multiple shards while ensuring serializable isolation.
与串行执行相比，可串行快照隔离不受单个 CPU 核心吞吐量的限制：例如，FoundationDB 将序列化冲突的检测分布到多个机器上，从而允许其扩展到非常高的吞吐量。即使数据可能分布在多个机器上，事务仍然可以在多个分片中读取和写入数据，同时确保可串行隔离。

Compared to non-serializable snapshot isolation, the need to check for serializability violations introduces some performance overheads. How significant these overheads are is a matter of debate: some believe that serializability checking is not worth it [68], while others believe that the performance of serializability is now so good that there is no need to use the weaker snapshot isolation any more [65].
与非可串行快照隔离相比，检查可串行性违规的需求引入了一些性能开销。这些开销的显著性是一个有争议的问题：一些人认为可串行性检查不值得 [68]，而另一些人则认为可串行性的性能现在已经很好，以至于不再需要使用较弱的快照隔离 [65]。

The rate of aborts significantly affects the overall performance of SSI. For example, a transaction that reads and writes data over a long period of time is likely to run into conflicts and abort, so SSI requires that read-write transactions be fairly short (long-running read-only transactions are okay). However, SSI is less sensitive to slow transactions than two-phase locking or serial execution.
中止的频率显著影响 SSI 的整体性能。例如，一个长时间读取和写入数据的事务可能会遇到冲突并中止，因此 SSI 要求读写事务相对较短（长时间运行的只读事务是可以的）。然而，SSI 对慢事务的敏感性低于两阶段锁定或串行执行。

Summary
总结

Transactions are an abstraction layer that allows an application to pretend that certain concurrency problems and certain kinds of hardware and software faults don’t exist. A large class of errors is reduced down to a simple transaction abort, and the application just needs to try again.
事务是一个抽象层，允许应用程序假装某些并发问题以及某些类型的硬件和软件故障不存在。大量错误被简化为一个简单的事务中止，应用程序只需重试即可。

In this chapter we saw many examples of problems that transactions help prevent. Not all applications are susceptible to all those problems: an application with very simple access patterns, such as reading and writing only a single record, can probably manage without transactions. However, for more complex access patterns, transactions can hugely reduce the number of potential error cases you need to think about.
在本章中，我们看到了许多事务帮助防止的问题示例。并不是所有应用程序都容易受到这些问题的影响：对于访问模式非常简单的应用程序，例如仅读取和写入单个记录，可能可以在没有事务的情况下进行管理。然而，对于更复杂的访问模式，事务可以大大减少您需要考虑的潜在错误情况的数量。

Without transactions, various error scenarios (processes crashing, network interruptions, power outages, disk full, unexpected concurrency, etc.) mean that data can become inconsistent in various ways. For example, denormalized data can easily go out of sync with the source data. Without transactions, it becomes very difficult to reason about the effects that complex interacting accesses can have on the database.
没有事务，各种错误场景（进程崩溃、网络中断、停电、磁盘满、意外并发等）意味着数据可能以各种方式变得不一致。例如，非规范化的数据很容易与源数据不同步。没有事务，推理复杂交互访问对数据库的影响变得非常困难。

In this chapter, we went particularly deep into the topic of concurrency control. We discussed several widely used isolation levels, in particular read committed, snapshot isolation (sometimes called repeatable read), and serializable. We characterized those isolation levels by discussing various examples of race conditions, summarized in Table 8-1:
在本章中，我们特别深入探讨了并发控制的主题。我们讨论了几种广泛使用的隔离级别，特别是已提交读、快照隔离（有时称为可重复读）和可串行化。我们通过讨论各种竞争条件的例子来描述这些隔离级别，汇总在表 8-1 中：

Table 8-1. Summary of anomalies that can occur at various isolation levels
表 8-1. 各种隔离级别下可能发生的异常总结
Isolation level
隔离级别 Dirty reads
脏读 Read skew
读取偏斜 Phantom reads
幻读 Lost updates
丢失更新 Write skew
写入偏差
Read uncommitted
读取未提交数据

✗ Possible
✗ 可能

✗ Possible
✗ 可能

✗ Possible
✗ 可能

✗ Possible
✗ 可能

✗ Possible
✗ 可能

Read committed
已读提交

✓ Prevented
✓ 已防止

✗ Possible
✗ 可能

✗ Possible
✗ 可能

✗ Possible
✗ 可能

✗ Possible
✗ 可能

Snapshot isolation
快照隔离

✓ Prevented
✓ 已防止

✓ Prevented
✓ 已防止

✓ Prevented
✓ 已防止

? Depends
? 视情况而定

✗ Possible
✗ 可能

Serializable
可序列化

✓ Prevented
✓ 已防止

✓ Prevented
✓ 已防止

✓ Prevented
✓ 已防止

✓ Prevented
✓ 已防止

✓ Prevented
✓ 已防止

Dirty reads
脏读
One client reads another client’s writes before they have been committed. The read committed isolation level and stronger levels prevent dirty reads.
一个客户端在另一个客户端的写入尚未提交之前读取了这些写入。读取已提交的隔离级别及更强的级别可以防止脏读。

Dirty writes
脏写
One client overwrites data that another client has written, but not yet committed. Almost all transaction implementations prevent dirty writes.
一个客户端覆盖了另一个客户端已写入但尚未提交的数据。几乎所有的事务实现都防止脏写。

Read skew
读取偏斜
A client sees different parts of the database at different points in time. Some cases of read skew are also known as nonrepeatable reads. This issue is most commonly prevented with snapshot isolation, which allows a transaction to read from a consistent snapshot corresponding to one particular point in time. It is usually implemented with multi-version concurrency control (MVCC).
一个客户端在不同时间点看到数据库的不同部分。某些读取偏斜的情况也被称为不可重复读取。这个问题通常通过快照隔离来防止，快照隔离允许事务从与某一特定时间点相对应的一致快照中读取数据。它通常通过多版本并发控制（MVCC）来实现。

Lost updates
丢失更新
Two clients concurrently perform a read-modify-write cycle. One overwrites the other’s write without incorporating its changes, so data is lost. Some implementations of snapshot isolation prevent this anomaly automatically, while others require a manual lock (SELECT FOR UPDATE).
两个客户端同时执行读-修改-写循环。一个客户端覆盖了另一个客户端的写入，而没有包含其更改，因此数据丢失。一些快照隔离的实现会自动防止这种异常，而其他实现则需要手动锁定（ SELECT FOR UPDATE ）。

Write skew
写入偏差
A transaction reads something, makes a decision based on the value it saw, and writes the decision to the database. However, by the time the write is made, the premise of the decision is no longer true. Only serializable isolation prevents this anomaly.
一个事务读取某些内容，根据它看到的值做出决策，并将该决策写入数据库。然而，在写入完成时，决策的前提条件不再成立。只有可串行化隔离可以防止这种异常。

Phantom reads
幻读
A transaction reads objects that match some search condition. Another client makes a write that affects the results of that search. Snapshot isolation prevents straightforward phantom reads, but phantoms in the context of write skew require special treatment, such as index-range locks.
一个事务读取符合某些搜索条件的对象。另一个客户端进行了一次写入，影响了该搜索的结果。快照隔离防止了简单的幻读，但在写入偏斜的情况下，幻读需要特殊处理，例如索引范围锁。

Weak isolation levels protect against some of those anomalies but leave you, the application developer, to handle others manually (e.g., using explicit locking). Only serializable isolation protects against all of these issues. We discussed three different approaches to implementing serializable transactions:
弱隔离级别可以防止一些异常，但让你，作为应用程序开发者，手动处理其他异常（例如，使用显式锁定）。只有可串行化隔离可以防止所有这些问题。我们讨论了实现可串行化事务的三种不同方法：

Literally executing transactions in a serial order
字面上按顺序执行事务
If you can make each transaction very fast to execute (typically by using stored procedures), and the transaction throughput is low enough to process on a single CPU core or can be sharded, this is a simple and effective option.
如果你能让每个事务的执行速度非常快（通常通过使用存储过程），并且事务吞吐量低到可以在单个 CPU 核心上处理或可以进行分片，那么这是一个简单有效的选项。

Two-phase locking
两阶段锁定
For decades this has been the standard way of implementing serializability, but many applications avoid using it because of its poor performance.
几十年来，这一直是实现可串行性的标准方法，但许多应用程序因为性能差而避免使用它。

Serializable snapshot isolation (SSI)
可序列化快照隔离（SSI）
A comparatively new algorithm that avoids most of the downsides of the previous approaches. It uses an optimistic approach, allowing transactions to proceed without blocking. When a transaction wants to commit, it is checked, and it is aborted if the execution was not serializable.
一种相对较新的算法，避免了之前方法的大多数缺点。它采用乐观的方法，允许事务在不阻塞的情况下进行。当一个事务想要提交时，会进行检查，如果执行不是可串行的，则会中止该事务。

The examples in this chapter used a relational data model. However, as discussed in “The need for multi-object transactions”, transactions are a valuable database feature, no matter which data model is used.
本章中的示例使用了关系数据模型。然而，正如在“多对象事务的必要性”中讨论的那样，事务是一个有价值的数据库特性，无论使用哪种数据模型。

In this chapter, we explored ideas and algorithms mostly in the context of a database running on a single machine. Transactions in distributed databases open a new set of difficult challenges, which we’ll discuss in the next two chapters.
在本章中，我们主要在单机数据库的上下文中探讨了思想和算法。分布式数据库中的事务带来了新的困难挑战，我们将在接下来的两章中讨论这些挑战。

Footnotes
脚注

References
参考文献

[1] Steven J. Murdoch. What went wrong with Horizon: learning from the Post Office Trial. benthamsgaze.org, July 2021. Archived at perma.cc/CNM4-553F
[ 1] Steven J. Murdoch. What went wrong with Horizon: learning from the Post Office Trial. benthamsgaze.org, 2021 年 7 月. 存档于 perma.cc/CNM4-553F

[2] Donald D. Chamberlin, Morton M. Astrahan, Michael W. Blasgen, James N. Gray, W. Frank King, Bruce G. Lindsay, Raymond Lorie, James W. Mehl, Thomas G. Price, Franco Putzolu, Patricia Griffiths Selinger, Mario Schkolnick, Donald R. Slutz, Irving L. Traiger, Bradford W. Wade, and Robert A. Yost. A History and Evaluation of System R. Communications of the ACM, volume 24, issue 10, pages 632–646, October 1981. doi:10.1145/358769.358784
[ 2] Donald D. Chamberlin, Morton M. Astrahan, Michael W. Blasgen, James N. Gray, W. Frank King, Bruce G. Lindsay, Raymond Lorie, James W. Mehl, Thomas G. Price, Franco Putzolu, Patricia Griffiths Selinger, Mario Schkolnick, Donald R. Slutz, Irving L. Traiger, Bradford W. Wade, 和 Robert A. Yost. A History and Evaluation of System R. Communications of the ACM, 第 24 卷，第 10 期，页码 632–646，1981 年 10 月. doi:10.1145/358769.358784

[3] Jim N. Gray, Raymond A. Lorie, Gianfranco R. Putzolu, and Irving L. Traiger. Granularity of Locks and Degrees of Consistency in a Shared Data Base. in Modelling in Data Base Management Systems: Proceedings of the IFIP Working Conference on Modelling in Data Base Management Systems, edited by G. M. Nijssen, pages 364–394, Elsevier/North Holland Publishing, 1976. Also in Readings in Database Systems, 4th edition, edited by Joseph M. Hellerstein and Michael Stonebraker, MIT Press, 2005. ISBN: 978-0-262-69314-1
[ 3] Jim N. Gray, Raymond A. Lorie, Gianfranco R. Putzolu, 和 Irving L. Traiger. 共享数据库中的锁粒度和一致性程度. 收录于《数据库管理系统建模：国际信息处理联合会数据库管理系统建模工作会议论文集》，编辑 G. M. Nijssen, 页码 364–394, Elsevier/North Holland Publishing, 1976. 也收录于《数据库系统读本》第四版, 编辑 Joseph M. Hellerstein 和 Michael Stonebraker, MIT Press, 2005. ISBN: 978-0-262-69314-1

[4] Kapali P. Eswaran, Jim N. Gray, Raymond A. Lorie, and Irving L. Traiger. The Notions of Consistency and Predicate Locks in a Database System. Communications of the ACM, volume 19, issue 11, pages 624–633, November 1976. doi:10.1145/360363.360369
[ 4] Kapali P. Eswaran, Jim N. Gray, Raymond A. Lorie, 和 Irving L. Traiger. 数据库系统中的一致性和谓词锁的概念. 《ACM 通讯》，第 19 卷，第 11 期，页码 624–633, 1976 年 11 月. doi:10.1145/360363.360369

[5] Rebecca Taft, Irfan Sharif, Andrei Matei, Nathan VanBenschoten, Jordan Lewis, Tobias Grieger, Kai Niemi, Andy Woods, Anne Birzin, Raphael Poss, Paul Bardea, Amruta Ranade, Ben Darnell, Bram Gruneir, Justin Jaffray, Lucy Zhang, and Peter Mattis. CockroachDB: The Resilient Geo-Distributed SQL Database. At ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data (SIGMOD), pages 1493–1509, June 2020. doi:10.1145/3318464.3386134
[ 5] Rebecca Taft, Irfan Sharif, Andrei Matei, Nathan VanBenschoten, Jordan Lewis, Tobias Grieger, Kai Niemi, Andy Woods, Anne Birzin, Raphael Poss, Paul Bardea, Amruta Ranade, Ben Darnell, Bram Gruneir, Justin Jaffray, Lucy Zhang, 和 Peter Mattis. CockroachDB: 弹性地理分布的 SQL 数据库. 在 ACM SIGMOD 国际数据管理会议（SIGMOD）上，页码 1493–1509, 2020 年 6 月. doi:10.1145/3318464.3386134

[6] Dongxu Huang, Qi Liu, Qiu Cui, Zhuhe Fang, Xiaoyu Ma, Fei Xu, Li Shen, Liu Tang, Yuxing Zhou, Menglong Huang, Wan Wei, Cong Liu, Jian Zhang, Jianjun Li, Xuelian Wu, Lingyu Song, Ruoxi Sun, Shuaipeng Yu, Lei Zhao, Nicholas Cameron, Liquan Pei, and Xin Tang. TiDB: a Raft-based HTAP database. Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment, volume 13, issue 12, pages 3072–3084. doi:10.14778/3415478.3415535
[ 6] 黄东旭, 刘琦, 崔秋, 方竹和, 马晓宇, 许飞, 沈力, 唐刘, 周宇星, 黄梦龙, 魏万, 刘聪, 张健, 李建军, 吴雪莲, 宋灵宇, 孙若溪, 于帅鹏, 赵磊, 尼古拉斯·卡梅伦, 裴立权, 和唐鑫. TiDB: 一种基于 Raft 的 HTAP 数据库. 《VLDB 基金会会议录》，第 13 卷，第 12 期，3072–3084 页. doi:10.14778/3415478.3415535

[7] James C. Corbett, Jeffrey Dean, Michael Epstein, Andrew Fikes, Christopher Frost, JJ Furman, Sanjay Ghemawat, Andrey Gubarev, Christopher Heiser, Peter Hochschild, Wilson Hsieh, Sebastian Kanthak, Eugene Kogan, Hongyi Li, Alexander Lloyd, Sergey Melnik, David Mwaura, David Nagle, Sean Quinlan, Rajesh Rao, Lindsay Rolig, Dale Woodford, Yasushi Saito, Christopher Taylor, Michal Szymaniak, and Ruth Wang. Spanner: Google’s Globally-Distributed Database. At 10th USENIX Symposium on Operating System Design and Implementation (OSDI), October 2012.
[ 7] 詹姆斯·C·科贝特, 杰弗里·迪恩, 迈克尔·爱泼斯坦, 安德鲁·费克斯, 克里斯托弗·弗罗斯特, JJ·弗曼, 桑贾伊·盖马瓦特, 安德烈·古巴列夫, 克里斯托弗·海泽, 彼得·霍赫希尔德, 威尔逊·谢, 塞巴斯蒂安·坎塔克, 尤金·科根, 李洪毅, 亚历山大·劳埃德, 谢尔盖·梅尔尼克, 大卫·姆瓦乌拉, 大卫·纳格尔, 肖恩·奎因兰, 拉杰什·拉奥, 林赛·罗利格, 戴尔·伍德福德, 斋藤康志, 克里斯托弗·泰勒, 米哈乌·斯兹马尼亚克, 和王如婷. Spanner: 谷歌的全球分布式数据库. 在第 10 届 USENIX 操作系统设计与实现研讨会（OSDI）上，2012 年 10 月。

[8] Jingyu Zhou, Meng Xu, Alexander Shraer, Bala Namasivayam, Alex Miller, Evan Tschannen, Steve Atherton, Andrew J. Beamon, Rusty Sears, John Leach, Dave Rosenthal, Xin Dong, Will Wilson, Ben Collins, David Scherer, Alec Grieser, Young Liu, Alvin Moore, Bhaskar Muppana, Xiaoge Su, and Vishesh Yadav. FoundationDB: A Distributed Unbundled Transactional Key Value Store. At ACM International Conference on Management of Data (SIGMOD), June 2021. doi:10.1145/3448016.3457559
[ 8] 周静宇, 许萌, 亚历山大·施雷尔, 巴拉·纳马西瓦扬, 亚历克斯·米勒, 埃文·查南, 史蒂夫·阿瑟顿, 安德鲁·J·比蒙, 拉斯蒂·西尔斯, 约翰·利奇, 戴夫·罗森塔尔, 邢东, 威尔·威尔逊, 本·柯林斯, 大卫·谢雷尔, 亚历克·格里泽, 刘阳, 阿尔文·摩尔, 巴斯卡尔·穆帕纳, 萧戈·苏, 和维谢什·亚达夫. FoundationDB: 一个分布式解耦的事务键值存储. 发表在 ACM 国际数据管理会议(SIGMOD), 2021 年 6 月. doi:10.1145/3448016.3457559

[9] Theo Härder and Andreas Reuter. Principles of Transaction-Oriented Database Recovery. ACM Computing Surveys, volume 15, issue 4, pages 287–317, December 1983. doi:10.1145/289.291
[ 9] 西奥·哈德尔 和 安德烈亚斯·罗伊特. 事务导向数据库恢复的原则. ACM 计算机调查, 第 15 卷, 第 4 期, 第 287–317 页, 1983 年 12 月. doi:10.1145/289.291

[10] Peter Bailis, Alan Fekete, Ali Ghodsi, Joseph M. Hellerstein, and Ion Stoica. HAT, not CAP: Towards Highly Available Transactions. At 14th USENIX Workshop on Hot Topics in Operating Systems (HotOS), May 2013.
[ 10] 彼得·贝利斯, 阿兰·费凯特, 阿里·戈德西, 约瑟夫·M·赫勒斯坦, 和 伊昂·斯托伊卡. HAT，而不是 CAP: 朝着高度可用的事务迈进. 发表在第 14 届 USENIX 操作系统热点话题研讨会(HotOS), 2013 年 5 月.

[11] Armando Fox, Steven D. Gribble, Yatin Chawathe, Eric A. Brewer, and Paul Gauthier. Cluster-Based Scalable Network Services. At 16th ACM Symposium on Operating Systems Principles (SOSP), October 1997. doi:10.1145/268998.266662
[ 11] 阿曼多·福克斯, 史蒂文·D·格里布尔, 雅廷·查瓦特, 埃里克·A·布鲁尔, 和 保罗·戈提耶. 基于集群的可扩展网络服务. 发表在第 16 届 ACM 操作系统原理研讨会(SOSP), 1997 年 10 月. doi:10.1145/268998.266662

[12] Tony Andrews. Enforcing Complex Constraints in Oracle. tonyandrews.blogspot.co.uk, October 2004. Archived at archive.org
[ 12] Tony Andrews. 在 Oracle 中强制执行复杂约束。tonyandrews.blogspot.co.uk，2004 年 10 月。存档于 archive.org

[13] Philip A. Bernstein, Vassos Hadzilacos, and Nathan Goodman. Concurrency Control and Recovery in Database Systems. Addison-Wesley, 1987. ISBN: 978-0-201-10715-9, available online at microsoft.com.
[ 13] Philip A. Bernstein, Vassos Hadzilacos, 和 Nathan Goodman. 数据库系统中的并发控制与恢复。Addison-Wesley，1987 年。ISBN: 978-0-201-10715-9，可在 microsoft.com 在线获取。

[14] Alan Fekete, Dimitrios Liarokapis, Elizabeth O’Neil, Patrick O’Neil, and Dennis Shasha. Making Snapshot Isolation Serializable. ACM Transactions on Database Systems, volume 30, issue 2, pages 492–528, June 2005. doi:10.1145/1071610.1071615
[ 14] Alan Fekete, Dimitrios Liarokapis, Elizabeth O’Neil, Patrick O’Neil, 和 Dennis Shasha. 使快照隔离可序列化。ACM 数据库系统交易，卷 30，第 2 期，页 492–528，2005 年 6 月。doi:10.1145/1071610.1071615

[15] Mai Zheng, Joseph Tucek, Feng Qin, and Mark Lillibridge. Understanding the Robustness of SSDs Under Power Fault. At 11th USENIX Conference on File and Storage Technologies (FAST), February 2013.
[ 15] Mai Zheng, Joseph Tucek, Feng Qin, 和 Mark Lillibridge. 理解 SSD 在电源故障下的鲁棒性。在第 11 届 USENIX 文件与存储技术会议（FAST）上，2013 年 2 月。

[16] Laurie Denness. SSDs: A Gift and a Curse. laur.ie, June 2015. Archived at perma.cc/6GLP-BX3T
[ 16] Laurie Denness. SSD：一份礼物与诅咒。laur.ie，2015 年 6 月。存档于 perma.cc/6GLP-BX3T

[17] Adam Surak. When Solid State Drives Are Not That Solid. blog.algolia.com, June 2015. Archived at perma.cc/CBR9-QZEE
[ 17] Adam Surak. 当固态硬盘并不那么可靠时。blog.algolia.com，2015 年 6 月。存档于 perma.cc/CBR9-QZEE

[18] Hewlett Packard Enterprise. Bulletin: (Revision) HPE SAS Solid State Drives - Critical Firmware Upgrade Required for Certain HPE SAS Solid State Drive Models to Prevent Drive Failure at 32,768 Hours of Operation. support.hpe.com, November 2019. Archived at perma.cc/CZR4-AQBS
[ 18] 惠普企业公司。公告：（修订版）HPE SAS 固态硬盘 - 某些 HPE SAS 固态硬盘型号需要进行关键固件升级，以防止在运行 32,768 小时后出现驱动器故障。support.hpe.com，2019 年 11 月。存档于 perma.cc/CZR4-AQBS

[19] Craig Ringer et al. PostgreSQL’s handling of fsync() errors is unsafe and risks data loss at least on XFS. Email thread on pgsql-hackers mailing list, postgresql.org, March 2018. Archived at perma.cc/5RKU-57FL
[ 19] Craig Ringer 等。PostgreSQL 对 fsync() 错误的处理不安全，并且在 XFS 上至少存在数据丢失的风险。pgsql-hackers 邮件列表上的电子邮件线程，postgresql.org，2018 年 3 月。存档于 perma.cc/5RKU-57FL

[20] Anthony Rebello, Yuvraj Patel, Ramnatthan Alagappan, Andrea C. Arpaci-Dusseau, and Remzi H. Arpaci-Dusseau. Can Applications Recover from fsync Failures? At USENIX Annual Technical Conference (ATC), July 2020.
[ 20] Anthony Rebello, Yuvraj Patel, Ramnatthan Alagappan, Andrea C. Arpaci-Dusseau 和 Remzi H. Arpaci-Dusseau。应用程序能否从 fsync 失败中恢复？在 USENIX 年度技术会议 (ATC) 上，2020 年 7 月。

[21] Thanumalayan Sankaranarayana Pillai, Vijay Chidambaram, Ramnatthan Alagappan, Samer Al-Kiswany, Andrea C. Arpaci-Dusseau, and Remzi H. Arpaci-Dusseau. Crash Consistency: Rethinking the Fundamental Abstractions of the File System. ACM Queue, volume 13, issue 7, pages 20–28, July 2015. doi:10.1145/2800695.2801719
[ 21] Thanumalayan Sankaranarayana Pillai, Vijay Chidambaram, Ramnatthan Alagappan, Samer Al-Kiswany, Andrea C. Arpaci-Dusseau, 和 Remzi H. Arpaci-Dusseau. 崩溃一致性：重新思考文件系统的基本抽象. ACM Queue, 第 13 卷, 第 7 期, 第 20–28 页, 2015 年 7 月. doi:10.1145/2800695.2801719

[22] Thanumalayan Sankaranarayana Pillai, Vijay Chidambaram, Ramnatthan Alagappan, Samer Al-Kiswany, Andrea C. Arpaci-Dusseau, and Remzi H. Arpaci-Dusseau. All File Systems Are Not Created Equal: On the Complexity of Crafting Crash-Consistent Applications. At 11th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI), October 2014.
[ 22] Thanumalayan Sankaranarayana Pillai, Vijay Chidambaram, Ramnatthan Alagappan, Samer Al-Kiswany, Andrea C. Arpaci-Dusseau, 和 Remzi H. Arpaci-Dusseau. 并非所有文件系统都是平等的：构建崩溃一致性应用程序的复杂性. 在第 11 届 USENIX 操作系统设计与实现研讨会（OSDI）上, 2014 年 10 月.

[23] Chris Siebenmann. Unix’s File Durability Problem. utcc.utoronto.ca, April 2016. Archived at perma.cc/VSS8-5MC4
[ 23] Chris Siebenmann. Unix 的文件耐久性问题。utcc.utoronto.ca，2016 年 4 月。存档于 perma.cc/VSS8-5MC4

[24] Aishwarya Ganesan, Ramnatthan Alagappan, Andrea C. Arpaci-Dusseau, and Remzi H. Arpaci-Dusseau. Redundancy Does Not Imply Fault Tolerance: Analysis of Distributed Storage Reactions to Single Errors and Corruptions. At 15th USENIX Conference on File and Storage Technologies (FAST), February 2017.
[ 24] Aishwarya Ganesan, Ramnatthan Alagappan, Andrea C. Arpaci-Dusseau, 和 Remzi H. Arpaci-Dusseau. 冗余并不意味着容错：对单一错误和损坏的分布式存储反应分析. 在第 15 届 USENIX 文件与存储技术会议（FAST）上, 2017 年 2 月.

[25] Lakshmi N. Bairavasundaram, Garth R. Goodson, Bianca Schroeder, Andrea C. Arpaci-Dusseau, and Remzi H. Arpaci-Dusseau. An Analysis of Data Corruption in the Storage Stack. At 6th USENIX Conference on File and Storage Technologies (FAST), February 2008.
[ 25] Lakshmi N. Bairavasundaram, Garth R. Goodson, Bianca Schroeder, Andrea C. Arpaci-Dusseau, 和 Remzi H. Arpaci-Dusseau. 存储栈中数据损坏的分析. 在第六届 USENIX 文件与存储技术会议（FAST）上，2008 年 2 月。

[26] Bianca Schroeder, Raghav Lagisetty, and Arif Merchant. Flash Reliability in Production: The Expected and the Unexpected. At 14th USENIX Conference on File and Storage Technologies (FAST), February 2016.
[ 26] Bianca Schroeder, Raghav Lagisetty, 和 Arif Merchant. 生产中的闪存可靠性：预期与意外. 在第十四届 USENIX 文件与存储技术会议（FAST）上，2016 年 2 月。

[27] Don Allison. SSD Storage – Ignorance of Technology Is No Excuse. blog.korelogic.com, March 2015. Archived at perma.cc/9QN4-9SNJ
[ 27] Don Allison. SSD 存储 – 对技术的无知不是借口. blog.korelogic.com，2015 年 3 月。存档于 perma.cc/9QN4-9SNJ

[28] Gordon Mah Ung. Debunked: Your SSD won’t lose data if left unplugged after all. pcworld.com, May 2015. Archived at perma.cc/S46H-JUDU
[ 28] Gordon Mah Ung. 被揭穿：你的 SSD 在断电后不会丢失数据. pcworld.com，2015 年 5 月。存档于 perma.cc/S46H-JUDU

[29] Martin Kleppmann. Hermitage: Testing the ‘I’ in ACID. martin.kleppmann.com, November 2014. Archived at perma.cc/KP2Y-AQGK
[ 29] Martin Kleppmann. Hermitage: 测试 ACID 中的“I”。 martin.kleppmann.com，2014 年 11 月。存档于 perma.cc/KP2Y-AQGK

[30] Todd Warszawski and Peter Bailis. ACIDRain: Concurrency-Related Attacks on Database-Backed Web Applications. At ACM International Conference on Management of Data (SIGMOD), May 2017. doi:10.1145/3035918.3064037
[ 30] Todd Warszawski 和 Peter Bailis. ACIDRain：针对数据库支持的 Web 应用程序的并发相关攻击。在 ACM 国际数据管理会议（SIGMOD），2017 年 5 月。doi:10.1145/3035918.3064037

[31] Tristan D’Agosta. BTC Stolen from Poloniex. bitcointalk.org, March 2014. Archived at perma.cc/YHA6-4C5D
[ 31] Tristan D’Agosta。BTC 从 Poloniex 被盗。bitcointalk.org，2014 年 3 月。存档于 perma.cc/YHA6-4C5D

[32] bitcointhief2. How I Stole Roughly 100 BTC from an Exchange and How I Could Have Stolen More! reddit.com, February 2014. Archived at archive.org
[ 32] bitcointhief2. 我是如何从一个交易所盗取大约 100 个比特币的，以及我本可以盗取更多的方式！reddit.com，2014 年 2 月。存档于 archive.org

[33] Sudhir Jorwekar, Alan Fekete, Krithi Ramamritham, and S. Sudarshan. Automating the Detection of Snapshot Isolation Anomalies. At 33rd International Conference on Very Large Data Bases (VLDB), September 2007.
[ 33] Sudhir Jorwekar, Alan Fekete, Krithi Ramamritham 和 S. Sudarshan. 自动检测快照隔离异常。在第 33 届国际大型数据库会议（VLDB），2007 年 9 月。

[34] Michael Melanson. Transactions: The Limits of Isolation. michaelmelanson.net, November 2014. Archived at perma.cc/RG5R-KMYZ
[ 34] Michael Melanson. 事务：隔离的局限性。michaelmelanson.net，2014 年 11 月。存档于 perma.cc/RG5R-KMYZ

[35] Edward Kim. How ACH works: A developer perspective — Part 1. engineering.gusto.com, April 2014. Archived at perma.cc/7B2H-PU94
[ 35] Edward Kim. ACH 的工作原理：开发者视角 — 第 1 部分。engineering.gusto.com，2014 年 4 月。存档于 perma.cc/7B2H-PU94

[36] Hal Berenson, Philip A. Bernstein, Jim N. Gray, Jim Melton, Elizabeth O’Neil, and Patrick O’Neil. A Critique of ANSI SQL Isolation Levels. At ACM International Conference on Management of Data (SIGMOD), May 1995. doi:10.1145/568271.223785
[ 36] Hal Berenson, Philip A. Bernstein, Jim N. Gray, Jim Melton, Elizabeth O’Neil, 和 Patrick O’Neil. ANSI SQL 隔离级别的批评。在 ACM 国际数据管理会议 (SIGMOD)，1995 年 5 月。doi:10.1145/568271.223785

[37] Atul Adya. Weak Consistency: A Generalized Theory and Optimistic Implementations for Distributed Transactions. PhD Thesis, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, March 1999. Archived at perma.cc/E97M-HW5Q
[ 37] Atul Adya. 弱一致性：分布式事务的广义理论和乐观实现。博士论文，麻省理工学院，1999 年 3 月。存档于 perma.cc/E97M-HW5Q

[38] Peter Bailis, Aaron Davidson, Alan Fekete, Ali Ghodsi, Joseph M. Hellerstein, and Ion Stoica. Highly Available Transactions: Virtues and Limitations. At 40th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases (VLDB), September 2014.
[ 38] Peter Bailis, Aaron Davidson, Alan Fekete, Ali Ghodsi, Joseph M. Hellerstein, 和 Ion Stoica. 高可用性事务：优点与局限性. 在第 40 届国际大型数据库会议 (VLDB) 上，2014 年 9 月。

[39] Natacha Crooks, Youer Pu, Lorenzo Alvisi, and Allen Clement. Seeing is Believing: A Client-Centric Specification of Database Isolation. At ACM Symposium on Principles of Distributed Computing (PODC), pages 73–82, July 2017. doi:10.1145/3087801.3087802
[ 39] Natacha Crooks, Youer Pu, Lorenzo Alvisi, 和 Allen Clement. 眼见为实：以客户端为中心的数据库隔离规范. 在 ACM 分布式计算原理研讨会 (PODC) 上，页码 73–82，2017 年 7 月。doi:10.1145/3087801.3087802

[40] Bruce Momjian. MVCC Unmasked. momjian.us, July 2014. Archived at perma.cc/KQ47-9GYB
[ 40] Bruce Momjian. MVCC 解密. momjian.us, 2014 年 7 月. 存档于 perma.cc/KQ47-9GYB

[41] Peter Alvaro and Kyle Kingsbury. MySQL 8.0.34. jepsen.io, December 2023. Archived at perma.cc/HGE2-Z878
[ 41] Peter Alvaro 和 Kyle Kingsbury. MySQL 8.0.34. jepsen.io，2023 年 12 月。存档于 perma.cc/HGE2-Z878

[42] Egor Rogov. PostgreSQL 14 Internals. postgrespro.com, April 2023. Archived at perma.cc/FRK2-D7WB
[ 42] Egor Rogov. PostgreSQL 14 内部结构. postgrespro.com，2023 年 4 月。存档于 perma.cc/FRK2-D7WB

[43] Hironobu Suzuki. The Internals of PostgreSQL. interdb.jp, 2017.
[ 43] 鈴木宏信. PostgreSQL 的内部结构. interdb.jp, 2017.

[44] Andy Pavlo and Bohan Zhang. The Part of PostgreSQL We Hate the Most. cs.cmu.edu, April 2023. Archived at perma.cc/XSP6-3JBN
[ 44] 安迪·帕夫洛 和 张博涵. 我们最讨厌的 PostgreSQL 部分. cs.cmu.edu, 2023 年 4 月. 存档于 perma.cc/XSP6-3JBN

[45] Yingjun Wu, Joy Arulraj, Jiexi Lin, Ran Xian, and Andrew Pavlo. An empirical evaluation of in-memory multi-version concurrency control. Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment, volume 10, issue 7, pages 781–792, March 2017. doi:10.14778/3067421.3067427
[ 45] 吴英俊, 乔伊·阿鲁尔拉杰, 林杰熙, 冉贤, 和 安迪·帕夫洛. 内存多版本并发控制的实证评估. VLDB 纪要, 第 10 卷, 第 7 期, 第 781–792 页, 2017 年 3 月. doi:10.14778/3067421.3067427

[46] Nikita Prokopov. Unofficial Guide to Datomic Internals. tonsky.me, May 2014.
[ 46] Nikita Prokopov. Datomic 内部的非官方指南. tonsky.me, 2014 年 5 月.

[47] Nate Wiger. An Atomic Rant. nateware.com, February 2010. Archived at perma.cc/5ZYB-PE44
[ 47] 内特·维格. 一场原子式的愤怒. nateware.com, 2010 年 2 月. 存档于 perma.cc/5ZYB-PE44

[48] James Coglan. Reading and writing, part 3: web applications. blog.jcoglan.com, October 2020. Archived at perma.cc/A7EK-PJVS
[ 48] James Coglan. 阅读与写作，第三部分：网络应用程序。blog.jcoglan.com，2020 年 10 月。存档于 perma.cc/A7EK-PJVS

[49] Peter Bailis, Alan Fekete, Michael J. Franklin, Ali Ghodsi, Joseph M. Hellerstein, and Ion Stoica. Feral Concurrency Control: An Empirical Investigation of Modern Application Integrity. At ACM International Conference on Management of Data (SIGMOD), June 2015. doi:10.1145/2723372.2737784
[ 49] Peter Bailis, Alan Fekete, Michael J. Franklin, Ali Ghodsi, Joseph M. Hellerstein, 和 Ion Stoica. 野生并发控制：现代应用程序完整性的实证研究。发表于 ACM 国际数据管理会议 (SIGMOD)，2015 年 6 月。doi:10.1145/2723372.2737784

[50] Jaana Dogan. Things I Wished More Developers Knew About Databases. rakyll.medium.com, April 2020. Archived at perma.cc/6EFK-P2TD
[ 50] Jaana Dogan. 我希望更多的开发者了解数据库的事情。rakyll.medium.com，2020 年 4 月。存档于 perma.cc/6EFK-P2TD

[51] Michael J. Cahill, Uwe Röhm, and Alan Fekete. Serializable Isolation for Snapshot Databases. At ACM International Conference on Management of Data (SIGMOD), June 2008. doi:10.1145/1376616.1376690
[ 51] Michael J. Cahill, Uwe Röhm, 和 Alan Fekete. 快照数据库的可序列化隔离。发表于 ACM 国际数据管理会议 (SIGMOD)，2008 年 6 月。doi:10.1145/1376616.1376690

[52] Dan R. K. Ports and Kevin Grittner. Serializable Snapshot Isolation in PostgreSQL. At 38th International Conference on Very Large Databases (VLDB), August 2012.
[ 52] Dan R. K. Ports 和 Kevin Grittner. PostgreSQL 中的可序列化快照隔离。发表于第 38 届国际大型数据库会议 (VLDB)，2012 年 8 月。

[53] Douglas B. Terry, Marvin M. Theimer, Karin Petersen, Alan J. Demers, Mike J. Spreitzer and Carl H. Hauser. Managing Update Conflicts in Bayou, a Weakly Connected Replicated Storage System. At 15th ACM Symposium on Operating Systems Principles (SOSP), December 1995. doi:10.1145/224056.224070
[ 53] Douglas B. Terry, Marvin M. Theimer, Karin Petersen, Alan J. Demers, Mike J. Spreitzer 和 Carl H. Hauser. 在 Bayou 中管理更新冲突，这是一种弱连接的复制存储系统。发表于第十五届 ACM 操作系统原理研讨会 (SOSP)，1995 年 12 月。doi:10.1145/224056.224070

[54] Hans-Jürgen Schönig. Constraints over multiple rows in PostgreSQL. cybertec-postgresql.com, June 2021. Archived at perma.cc/2TGH-XUPZ
[ 54] Hans-Jürgen Schönig. PostgreSQL 中多行约束. cybertec-postgresql.com，2021 年 6 月。存档于 perma.cc/2TGH-XUPZ

[55] Michael Stonebraker, Samuel Madden, Daniel J. Abadi, Stavros Harizopoulos, Nabil Hachem, and Pat Helland. The End of an Architectural Era (It’s Time for a Complete Rewrite). At 33rd International Conference on Very Large Data Bases (VLDB), September 2007.
[ 55] Michael Stonebraker, Samuel Madden, Daniel J. Abadi, Stavros Harizopoulos, Nabil Hachem 和 Pat Helland. 一个架构时代的结束（是时候进行全面重写了）。发表于第三十三届国际大型数据库会议 (VLDB)，2007 年 9 月。

[56] John Hugg. H-Store/VoltDB Architecture vs. CEP Systems and Newer Streaming Architectures. At Data @Scale Boston, November 2014.
[ 56] John Hugg. H-Store/VoltDB 架构与 CEP 系统及新型流处理架构的比较。发表于 Data @Scale Boston，2014 年 11 月。

[57] Robert Kallman, Hideaki Kimura, Jonathan Natkins, Andrew Pavlo, Alexander Rasin, Stanley Zdonik, Evan P. C. Jones, Samuel Madden, Michael Stonebraker, Yang Zhang, John Hugg, and Daniel J. Abadi. H-Store: A High-Performance, Distributed Main Memory Transaction Processing System. Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment, volume 1, issue 2, pages 1496–1499, August 2008.
[ 57] Robert Kallman, Hideaki Kimura, Jonathan Natkins, Andrew Pavlo, Alexander Rasin, Stanley Zdonik, Evan P. C. Jones, Samuel Madden, Michael Stonebraker, Yang Zhang, John Hugg 和 Daniel J. Abadi. H-Store：一个高性能的分布式主内存事务处理系统。发表于 VLDB 基金会会议，卷 1，第 2 期，1496–1499 页，2008 年 8 月。

[58] Rich Hickey. The Architecture of Datomic. infoq.com, November 2012. Archived at perma.cc/5YWU-8XJK
[ 58] Rich Hickey. Datomic 的架构。infoq.com，2012 年 11 月。存档于 perma.cc/5YWU-8XJK

[59] John Hugg. Debunking Myths About the VoltDB In-Memory Database. dzone.com, May 2014. Archived at perma.cc/2Z9N-HPKF
[ 59] John Hugg. 驳斥关于 VoltDB 内存数据库的神话。dzone.com，2014 年 5 月。存档于 perma.cc/2Z9N-HPKF

[60] Xinjing Zhou, Viktor Leis, Xiangyao Yu, and Michael Stonebraker. OLTP Through the Looking Glass 16 Years Later: Communication is the New Bottleneck. At 15th Annual Conference on Innovative Data Systems Research (CIDR), January 2025.
[ 60] Xinjing Zhou, Viktor Leis, Xiangyao Yu, 和 Michael Stonebraker. 16 年后的 OLTP 透视：通信是新的瓶颈。在第十五届创新数据系统研究年会 (CIDR)，2025 年 1 月。

[61] Xinjing Zhou, Xiangyao Yu, Goetz Graefe, and Michael Stonebraker. Lotus: scalable multi-partition transactions on single-threaded partitioned databases. Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment (PVLDB), volume 15, issue 11, pages 2939–2952, July 2022. doi:10.14778/3551793.3551843
[ 61] Xinjing Zhou, Xiangyao Yu, Goetz Graefe, 和 Michael Stonebraker. Lotus：在单线程分区数据库上可扩展的多分区事务。VLDB 基金会会议录 (PVLDB)，第 15 卷，第 11 期，页码 2939–2952，2022 年 7 月。doi:10.14778/3551793.3551843

[62] Joseph M. Hellerstein, Michael Stonebraker, and James Hamilton. Architecture of a Database System. Foundations and Trends in Databases, volume 1, issue 2, pages 141–259, November 2007. doi:10.1561/1900000002
[ 62] Joseph M. Hellerstein, Michael Stonebraker, 和 James Hamilton. 数据库系统的架构。数据库基础与趋势，第 1 卷，第 2 期，页码 141–259，2007 年 11 月。doi:10.1561/1900000002

[63] Michael J. Cahill. Serializable Isolation for Snapshot Databases. PhD Thesis, University of Sydney, July 2009. Archived at perma.cc/727J-NTMP
[ 63] Michael J. Cahill. 快照数据库的可序列化隔离. 博士论文，悉尼大学，2009 年 7 月。存档于 perma.cc/727J-NTMP

[64] Cristian Diaconu, Craig Freedman, Erik Ismert, Per-Åke Larson, Pravin Mittal, Ryan Stonecipher, Nitin Verma, and Mike Zwilling. Hekaton: SQL Server’s Memory-Optimized OLTP Engine. At ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data (SIGMOD), pages 1243–1254, June 2013. doi:10.1145/2463676.2463710
[ 64] Cristian Diaconu, Craig Freedman, Erik Ismert, Per-Åke Larson, Pravin Mittal, Ryan Stonecipher, Nitin Verma, 和 Mike Zwilling. Hekaton: SQL Server 的内存优化 OLTP 引擎. 在 ACM SIGMOD 数据管理国际会议 (SIGMOD) 上，页码 1243–1254，2013 年 6 月。doi:10.1145/2463676.2463710

[65] Thomas Neumann, Tobias Mühlbauer, and Alfons Kemper. Fast Serializable Multi-Version Concurrency Control for Main-Memory Database Systems. At ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data (SIGMOD), pages 677–689, May 2015. doi:10.1145/2723372.2749436
[ 65] Thomas Neumann, Tobias Mühlbauer, 和 Alfons Kemper. 主内存数据库系统的快速可序列化多版本并发控制. 在 ACM SIGMOD 数据管理国际会议 (SIGMOD) 上，页码 677–689，2015 年 5 月。doi:10.1145/2723372.2749436

[66] D. Z. Badal. Correctness of Concurrency Control and Implications in Distributed Databases. At 3rd International IEEE Computer Software and Applications Conference (COMPSAC), November 1979. doi:10.1109/CMPSAC.1979.762563
[ 66] D. Z. Badal. 并发控制的正确性及其在分布式数据库中的影响. 在第三届国际 IEEE 计算机软件与应用会议 (COMPSAC) 上，1979 年 11 月。doi:10.1109/CMPSAC.1979.762563

[67] Rakesh Agrawal, Michael J. Carey, and Miron Livny. Concurrency Control Performance Modeling: Alternatives and Implications. ACM Transactions on Database Systems (TODS), volume 12, issue 4, pages 609–654, December 1987. doi:10.1145/32204.32220
[ 67] Rakesh Agrawal, Michael J. Carey, 和 Miron Livny. 并发控制性能建模：替代方案及其影响. ACM 数据库系统交易 (TODS), 第 12 卷，第 4 期, 页码 609–654, 1987 年 12 月. doi:10.1145/32204.32220

[68] Marc Brooker. Snapshot Isolation vs Serializability. brooker.co.za, December 2024. Archived at perma.cc/5TRC-CR5G
[ 68] Marc Brooker. 快照隔离与可串行化. brooker.co.za, 2024 年 12 月. 存档于 perma.cc/5TRC-CR5G
